2014-08-10

B.J. Sankey, Ten, RB – In terms of fantasy purposes, the rookie's end game line was actually respectable (75 total yds, TD). However, his 2.8 yards per carry, primarily against soon-to-be unemployed Packers, left a lot to be desired. Sankey is a terrific receiving back who, alongside Dexter McCluster, should inflict damage in the pass game. In PPR leagues, he will be FLEX worthy at a minimum. But Shonn Greene, who ran for 20 yards on four carries including a 13-yard TD, is entrenched as Ken Whisenhunt's short-yardage and goal-line back. If the youngster continues to underwhelm between the hashmarks, it's likely the veteran will control early-down work too. There's still plenty of time for Sankey to convince coaches he deserves to be the lead back, but he must exude more toughness on interior runs to do so. For now, he's nothing more than a bench worthy option immersed in a muddy RBBC. You're snapping tendons for his services anytime before Round 6 in 12-team leagues. 

Nick Foles, Phi, QB – After witnessing his dreadful performance in real time, it was shocking to find out Foles wasn't wearing a blindfold. Twice in the face of Bears pressure, he chucked the ball off his back-foot and found navy blue jerseys. Yes, it was a couple series in the first preseason game, but his wretched performance (6-9, 44 yds, 2 INTs) only adds fuel to the 'Don't Draft Foles' fire. His 9.1 yards per attempt and 27:2 TD:INT split in 13 games last year is unsustainable, especially in a run-first offense. Many won't be deterred, but counting on him for top-10 numbers is a futile exercise. At his 65.3 ADP (QB9) in Yahoo leagues, he likely won't turn a profit. Cutler, Ben Roethlisberger and Philip Rivers are better options, each going some 40-60 picks later. You've been warned. 

Ryan Mathews, SD, RB – Old habits die hard for the Charger. Though he ran the ball fairly effectively against a mostly transparent Dallas front line, his moronic and completely unnecessary leap toward the end-zone marred his night. Instead of staying on the ground and powering the pigskin in for six, he left his feet, collided with a pair of Cowboys short of the goal-line and coughed it up. Because of his previous fumbling issues inside the red zone, the blunder was particularly unnerving. Equally frustrating, it appears McCoy will keep Danny Woodhead heavily involved in all situations, including goal-line sets. Couple that with Donald Brown's arrival, and Mathews will likely be a wildly erratic fantasy producer this fall. He'll set the pace in carries among Chargers backs, but it's becoming increasingly difficult to justify his top-40 ADP (37.0, RB17). And this is coming from one of his staunchest supporters. 

Teddy Bridgewater, Min, QB – Fan clamoring for 'Touchdown Teddy' was quickly squashed Friday night. Cutting his teeth with the second team, he looked very green at times. He held onto the ball too long, made poor reads downfield and was generally timid against an Oakland defense that should be relatively soft defending the pass. On the night, he completed just six of 13 attempts for 49 yards (3.7 ypa). Teddy will log plenty of work over the next couple weeks, but he's well behind Matt Cassel in the battle for the Vikings' starting gig. If stark improvements aren't made, expect the franchise to coddle him. Slow your roll on thoughts of 23-25 touchdowns from the rookie this year. Odds are reasonable he may not start until Week 5 or later.

QUICK HITTERS: Bill Lazor's debut as Miami's offensive coordinator was certainly a memorable one. Operating in a spread-based scheme, Ryan Tannehill played brilliantly going 6-for-6 for 62 yards and a TD. Atlanta's D is atrocious, but there could be some nice fantasy juice with Tanny, Lamar Miller, Charles Clay and Mike Wallace this season ... Deep-leaguers, store Juwan Thompson to long-term memory. The undrafted rookie RB, a standout in Broncos camp, transitioned seamlessly from practice to preseason field. He showed surprising quickness and power totaling 59 yards on only six carries. Montee Ball and Ronnie Hillman are the clear-cut RB1-RB2 in Denver, but if the injury imp bites, the kid from Duke could get the call, not C.J. Anderson ... Jordan Matthews had a debut to forget. Targeted seven times he dropped three passes. Yuck. Hopefully he'll dip his hands honey prior to Friday's tango with New England ... If C.J. Spiller scores eight or more touchdowns this year, the rapture will begin. He looked faster and more assertive compared to two weeks ago, but Fred Jackson continues to supplant him inside the 20. He's quite possibly the most overvalued RB currently in drafts (36.0 ADP, RB16) ... Houston's abominable display on offense partially explains why it was cooked in the desert, but Arizona's suffocating D might be the full reason. The Cards applied ample heat on Ryan Fitzpatrick, played terrific coverage downfield and flat-out smashed the Texans. From top to bottom it might be the nastiest unit in football, which, based on its bargain basement ADP, is why reaching for the Seattle D is airheaded.  

