2011-09-14
September 14, 2011

Matt Schaub, Hou, QB (75%)
Opponent: at Mia
Entering the season, Miami's secondary was expected to be its strength. According to Pro Football Focus, the Fins ranked fourth in pass rush and 13th in defending pass attempts. However, sent to the cannery by Tom Brady in opening week action to the tune of 517 yards and four touchdowns, many have questioned the true legitimacy of corners Vontae Davis and Sean Smith. Recall last year, the duo limited passers to the 10th fewest fantasy points. Still, they are better than what they showed Week 1. Schaub, the victim of a lopsided early spread versus Indy, disappointed last week finishing No. 25 among passers in points. Though his numbers should improve, don't anticipate a killer day. Based on the matchup, most would automatically assume huge numbers are in the offing, but with Arian Foster, who returned to practice Wednesday, expected back, Gary Kubiak will likely install a run-heavy attack to get his prized rusher going. It's also important to note Smith is one of the rare DBs who possesses the size and speed to hang with Andre Johnson. If he can prevent the All-Pro from chewing up large chunks downfield, Schaub may again post vanilla numbers.
Fearless Forecast: 22-35, 258 passing yards, 1 touchdown, 2 interceptions, 14.9 fantasy points

Chris Johnson, Ten, RB (93%)
Opponent: vs. Bal
Last week, Mike Munchak, given the keys to a Ferrari, decided to the leave the cherished ride under cover as Johnson touched the rock just 15 times against Jacksonville, compiling 49 yards. Smooth move, Cameron Frye. The first-year head coach has vowed No. 28 will be deployed more often in the follow-up, but owners with viable alternatives may want to leave the $50 million vehicle in park. The Ravens dominated the line of scrimmage last week against Pittsburgh. Rashard Mendenhall, swarmed under repeatedly by a sea of black, finished with just 45 yards on 12 carries. Without an explosive passing attack a similar scenario could unfold for Captain Quick. Keep in mind, he's struggled in the past against stiff defenses. Last year versus the aforementioned Steelers, Eagles and Chargers — each ranked inside the top-15 in run D — he averaged just 69.7 total yards per game and 3.8 yards per carry. Also note Baltimore has only surrendered three 100-yard RB games in its past 25 regular season contests. Better days are ahead, but with rust still visible, Johnson is one stud who could again step on a landmine.
Fearless Forecast: 18 carries, 69 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 19 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 11.1 fantasy points

Jamaal Charles, KC, RB (97%)
Opponent: at Det
To many, designating the JC of KC a "Lame" is enough to incite a holy war. However, the Noise, armed with killer bunnies and cow catapults, is more than prepared to fend off an army of Charles crusaders. Without question, the KC rusher is one of the league's most versatile and explosive backs. His 6.4 yards per carry average last year was the second-best all-time. But with Dexter McCluster and Thomas Jones cutting into his workload and facing the daunting task of coming nose-to-nose with man-eaters Corey Williams and Ndamukong Suh, his prospects of a top-level Week 2 performance are dire. More damning, the absence of defensive leader Eric Berry could keep Matthew Stafford on the field for an eternity, ruining JC's chances of RB1 numbers. He will still play a pivotal role in the passing game, especially if the Chiefs are buried early, but expect his totals, outside PPR leagues, to be far from divine.
Fearless Forecast: 14 carries, 63 rushing yards, 5 receptions, 31 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 13.1 fantasy points

Mike Williams, TB, WR (90%)
Opponent: at Min
In the Land of 10,000 Lakes, expect this Buccaneer's boat to capsize. Last week, Williams picked up where he left off in his rookie season, hauling in four catches for 50 yards, including a beautiful toe-tapping score in the endzone late in the fourth quarter. Blessed with plus size, speed and athleticism, he's a cumbersome matchup for almost any corner. However, expect Antoine Winfield to step up to the challenge. The corner is a tenacious, hard-hitting defender who did a masterful job containing Vincent Jackson a week ago. In fact, the Vikes' Cover 2 as a whole played brilliantly, holding V-Jax and Malcom Floyd to a combined five receptions for 76 yards. Last season, Right Coast Mike failed to surpass eight points in a fantasy game only five times in 16 starts. Anticipate this week to be his first disappearing act of 2011.
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 39 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 6.9 fantasy points

Brandon Lloyd, Den, WR (89%)
Opponent: vs. Cin
Entering draft season, many tabbed Lloyd a one-hit wonder. But last week in slick conditions against the Raiders, the No. 1 showed he was no Kriss Kross, grabbing a game-high six passes for 89 yards. Most weeks, he will be at worst a midrange WR2, but against the Bengals, an unfavorable outcome could develop. Lloyd, sidelined by a mild groin strain, missed practice Wednesday. Currently listed as day-to-day, he is expected to suit up Sunday. However, the hinderance could prove problematic against the Bengals' surprising secondary. Last week, Leon Hall and Nate Clements limited Browns receivers to just six catches for 84 yards. Granted Lloyd is more talented than Mohamed Massaquoi, Greg Little and Josh Cribbs, but the bracketing nature of Marvin Lewis' scheme may lead to unpleasant results. Also, keep in mind due to Denver's ongoing issues against the run, Cedric Benson may eat a ton of clock, limiting the receiver's scoring opportunities. Assuming he's active, Lloyd is still a serviceable WR3 in 12-teamers, just don't bank on a stellar day.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 68 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 10.5 fantasy points
