2009-12-23

Peyton Manning(notes), Ind, QB (Noise QB Rank: 12, Bench: 8-10 team leagues, 100% started)

Matchup: vs. NYJ

Though Jim Caldwell continues to be vague in regards to starters' playing time, the chances all marquee Colts lay Yule logs this week are solid, including Manning. We've witnessed this scenario unfold before. With Indy's playoff fate determined, Tony Dungy opted to sit his players in '05 and '06. Caldwell, a Dungy disciple, will likely follow the same blueprint. Undoubtedly, Manning will probably play at least the entire first half. But against an unfriendly Jets secondary, starting him is an enhanced risk. Only one quarterback this season, Chad Henne(notes) in Week 5, has thrown for multiple touchdowns against them. And only four signal callers - Drew Brees(notes) and Matt Schaub(notes) not included - have reached the 200-yard mark. Considering the circumstances, history and matchup, it's quite possible Curtis Painter(notes) could see extensive action. Play it safe.

Fearless Forecast: 15-24, 198 passing yards, 1 touchdown, 2 interceptions, 11 fantasy points

Steven Jackson, StL, RB (Noise RB Rank: 17, Bench: NO BENCH, 83% started)

Matchup: at Ari

Jackson must pull Budweiser-stocked carts to stay in shape. The man is a Clydesdale. Heroic is the best word that describes the workhorse's spectacular season. Despite routinely facing overloaded boxes, he continues to thwart opponents. He even stiff-armed the Swine Flu. As Jackson remarked earlier this week he refuses to shut it down. Based on his consistent returns, his passion for playing is evident. Only three times this season he's failed to eclipse 100 total yards in a game. But this week could be the fourth. Arizona has been steamrolled in the trenches over the past two weeks yielding 167 yards to Frank Gore(notes) Week 14 and 126 to lowly Maurice Morris(notes) last week. But, as Adrian Peterson owners can attest, the Cardinals are fiercer at home allowing just 4.1 yards per carry to rushers. He's impossible to demote, especially in PPR formats, but upstarts Fred Jackson(notes) (at Atl), Beanie Wells(notes) (vs. StL) and Harrison will likely yield more formidable totals.

Fearless Forecast: 21 carries, 84 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 13 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 9 fantasy points

LaDainian Tomlinson(notes), SD, RB (Noise RB Rank: 21, Bench: 8-10 team leagues, 86% started)

Matchup: at Ten

Start LT on Christmas night and it's quite possible he'll deposit a lump of coal in your stocking. Coming off his first 100-total yard game of the season, the antiquated back was finally featured prominently in the passing attack. According to Norv Turner, the veteran hasn't "lost anything in terms of his receiving ability" - a strange comment considering LT has averaged 1.3 receptions per game. Due to San Diego's continued run-blocking inadequacies and the Titans' growing defensive confidence, the former league MVP should not be trusted. Tennessee's run defense has intensified over the past five weeks surrendering just 3.9 yards per carry and 133.8 total yards per game to RBs. In fact, no rusher has reached the 80-yard mark against the Titans since Maurice Jones-Drew(notes) gashed them for 177 yards in Week 8. Unless LT again carves out a substantial role in the passing game, which seems very unlikely, another underwhelming total yardage effort is likely. Don't let him be your Scrooge.

Fearless Forecast: 18 carries, 63 rushing yards, 1 reception, 8 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 7 fantasy points

Knowshon Moreno(notes), Den, RB (Noise RB Rank: 25, Bench: 8-12 team leagues, 70% started)

Matchup: at Phi

Shortcomings in short-yardage situations continue to plague the rookie. If you give Moreno an inch, he'll take a centimeter. He's been stopped for negative yards, no gain or 1-yard an astounding 35.2 percent of the time. Josh McDaniels refuses to point an accusatory finger specifically at the youngster commenting earlier this week every component of the rushing offense has failed. The prepubescent coach probably isn't expecting a miraculous turnaround this week in Philly. Sean McDermott's aggressive defense is an intimidating foe. The Eagles have yielded an uncharacteristic 4.3 yards per carry to backs since Week 11, but over that span they've also surrendered just two scores and 128.6 total yards per game, equal to the sixth-fewest fantasy points. Don't bank on Moreno rediscovering his mojo.

Fearless Forecast: 19 carries, 65 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 14 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 7 fantasy points


.
Calvin Johnson, Det, WR (Noise WR Rank: 29, NO BENCH, 75% started)
Matchup: at SF

Nothing says potential fantasy disaster quite like Drew Stanton(notes). The inexperience third-string quarterback is expected to net the start this week in hostile territory. For the third-straight week Megatron may transform into a small-massed object. Hampered by a sore knee and constant double coverage, the unbelievably gifted wideout has vanished. Over the past two weeks he's caught just seven passes for 72 yards. On paper, Niners corner Shawntee Spencer is completely outmatched by Johnson's size and skill set - most corners are. But since he's really Detroit's only reliable offensive weapon, Mike Singletary will devise several strategies to confine the talented receiver. Keep in mind only two receivers have surpassed 70 yards against San Francisco since Week 10.

Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 41 receiving yards, 0 touchdown, 4 fantasy points

Steve Smith, NYG, WR (Noise WR Rank: 27, Bench: NO BENCH, 76% started)

Matchup: vs. Car

Smith is blessed with Spiderman hands. The sticky-fingered wideout has caught over 66 percent of passes thrown his direction. Because of Eli Manning's pinpoint accuracy, the Giants have resorted to a more aggressive, skyward style over the past several games. However, as we discussed earlier, this matchup sets up nicely for the running game. Carolina has yielded a fair amount of pass yardage (212.8) since Week 11, but few touchdowns. In fact, only three receivers have crossed the chalk against the Panthers this season. Smith is a savvy route-runner who exploits soft spots in coverage with regularity. But Chris Gamble(notes) will be a challenge. Only Roddy White(notes) and Antonio Bryant(notes) have eclipsed the 70-yard mark against him this year. Smith will get his usual 5-6 catches, but his yardage totals probably won't make a major impact.

Fearless Forecast: 6 receptions, 59 receiving yards, 0 touchdown, 5 fantasy points

Terrell Owens(notes), Buf, WR (Noise WR Rank: 37, Bench: 8-12 team leagues, 60% started)

Matchup: at Atl

Minus the homophobic slurs, T.O. did his best Larry Johnson Twitter impersonation after last week's loss to New England posting "sometimes things must come 2 and end, u hv 2 move on & accept wht life has 2 offer." For those with English degrees who can't decipher annoying Twitter shorthand, Owens' time in Buffalo appears to be short-lived. With only seven catches for 66 yards in his past three games, his frustration is understandable. This week it could reach a crescendo. Atlanta's secondary is less than stellar. No unit has allowed more 20-yard pass plays this season. But with performance douser Brian Brohm(notes) scheduled to start and the Bills determined to push Fred Jackson over 1,000 yards, Owens will again be forgotten. Just say, ho, ho, no to T.O.

Fearless Forecast: 3 receptions, 34 receiving yards, 0 touchdown, 3 fantasy points

Greg Olsen(notes), Chi, TE (Noise TE Rank: 15, Bench: 8-14 team leagues, 60% started)

Matchup: vs. Min

Due to his largely insignificant contributions, He-Man has transformed into She-Ra. Trapped in an offensive wasteland, the highly skilled target has attracted few opportunities. For the most part, his season has been a colossal failure, particularly over the past five weeks. During that stretch he's averaged a mere 3.6 receptions and 22 yards per game. His resulting 2.2 points per game output ranks No. 36 at his position, one spot ahead of fantasy powerhouse Brad Cottam(notes). Despite his dramatic downturn, owners - we can only assume are deceased or out of contention - continue to start him. Olsen compiled a PPR praiseworthy seven catches for 42 yards four weeks ago against the Vikes. But in the rematch little should be expected.

Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 26 receiving yards, 0 touchdown, 2 fantasy points

