2009-10-22

Eli Manning, NYG, QB (45%)
Matchup: vs. Ari
Based on the Noise's rather pathetic Flames performance over the past couple weeks, he's donning Eli's jersey to "feel like a winner." Coming off a sour homecoming in New Orleans, the younger Manning is must-start material in Week 7. Arizona, which dismantled Seattle at Qwest Field last week, repeatedly disrupted Matt Hasselbeck with a barrage of blitzes. Due to the Hawks' makeshift line, applying pressure was achieved. However, the Cards' heat will be cooled against arguably the NFC's finest trench units, giving the Giants quarterback ample time to deliver passes downfield. Ken Whisenhunt's club has yielded 270.6 yards per game and nine scores to passers this season, equal to the fifth-most fantasy points allowed. Throw in 'Zona's stout run defense and the G-Men's difficulties in the ground department, particularly Brandon Jacobs', and Eli could accumulate top-10 totals under the prime time lights.
Fearless Forecast: 21-34, 283 passing yards, 2 touchdowns, 1 interception, 21 fantasy points 

Jonathan Stewart, Car, RB (50%)
Matchup: vs. Buf
Over the first five weeks of the season, Carolina's rushing attack resembled a group of obese Garfields. But against a vulnerable Tampa front, DeAngelo Williams and Stewart were jum, both eclipsing the 100-yard mark for the first time this season. John Fox's powder keg should explode again this week. The banged-up Bills have conceded 205.7 total yards per game, 5.3 yards per carry and nine total touchdowns to rushers, equal to the most fantasy points surrendered. They also top the list in 20-yard run plays allowed (10). Due to Jake Delhomme's gross inadequacies and Steve Smith's nonexistence, defenses will continue to overload the box to stop the run. But as Stewie's tag-team partner told the AP earlier this week, the offensive line was "just moving guys" when presented with a similar obstacle against the Bucs. With the passing game underperforming, Fox will lean heavily on his ground game to turn the Bills into jerky. Expect Stewart to tally at least 12-15 touches.
Fearless Forecast: 14 carries, 73 rushing yards, 1 reception, 7 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 14 fantasy points

Laurence Maroney, NE, RB (34%)
Matchup: vs. TB (in London)
A fantasy Phoenix of sorts, Maroney rose from the ashes last week surpassing the 100-yard mark for the first time since 2007. Plowing through the snow, he exuded patience and ran with noticeable conviction, an effort that earned the admiration of Bill Belichick and scorned owners. The subject of much discussion in the virtual sports community this week, Maroney is a back many pundits and novices alike are uncertain what to make of. But with a friendly matchup against Tampa in the Land of Quarrelsome Gallaghers, Sir Laurence should live up to his knightly nickname. The sorrowful Bucs have yielded 4.8 yards per carry and 171.5 total yards per game to plowshares, equal to the fifth-most fantasy points surrendered. Based on Tom Brady's ability to stretch defenses thin, he should prove RB2 useful despite splitting touches with BenJarvus Green-Ellis and Kevin Faulk. Believe in the renaissance.
Fearless Forecast: 15 carries, 74 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 12 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 14 fantasy points

Donald Brown, Ind, RB (25%)
Matchup: at StL
By now, many fantasy aficionados expected Brown to be the lead horse in the Colts' backfield. But, as team president Bill Polian said this week, the veteran will remain the primary option in the rotation over the foreseeable future in order to maximize the rookie's freshness for the long haul. Spectacular achievements haven't yet surfaced for Brown, but he's been flex serviceable against susceptible defenses. That scenario could unfold once again this week. The rancid Rams have shown significant improvement against the run this season, limiting backs to 3.9 yards per carry. But offenses continue to wear them down late in contests. Overall, St. Louis has allowed 149.7 total yards per game and nine scores, equal to the sixth-most fantasy points conceded. Because Peyton Manning will be able to operate uninhibitedly through the air, Brown could be worked extensively in garbage time. Don't be surprised if he breaks the 15-touch plane for the first time in his young career.
Fearless Forecast: 11 carries, 46 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 23 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 12 fantasy points

Miles Austin, Dal, WR (47%)
Matchup: vs. Atl
Fresh off the bye and two weeks removed from his record-setting performance in Kansas City, the Capital of Texas will levy burdensome taxes on the visiting Falcons. For the most part, Atlanta has performed admirably against the pass surrendering only one score and the ninth-fewest fantasy points to wideouts. But for the most part, the Dirty Birds have been a bend-don't-break secondary. They've conceded eighteen 20-yard pass plays, the seventh most in the league. With corner Brian Williams IR-bound (torn ACL) and given Austin's recent promotion, the third-year wideout, in an attempt to expose the Falcons' primary weakness, will be targeted often downfield by Tony Romo. If provided single coverage, a long touchdown or two could be in store.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 87 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 14 fantasy points

Lance Moore, NO, WR (27%)
Matchup: at Mia
Hamstrung over the first four weeks of the season, Sir Lance-a-Lot, finally 100 percent healthy, skewered the Giants in last week's Bourbon Street beatdown, snagging six passes for 78 yards and a score. Because amnesia is a prevalent problem in the fantasy community, Moore was largely dismissed by the impatient weeks ago. How soon people forget. Recall last season he was one of the game's finest waiver finds, totaling 79 receptions, 928 yards and 10 touchdowns. His 9.6 points per game output ranked No. 14 among receivers, one spot behind teammate Marques Colston. Obviously, Colston is Drew Brees' main flame, but in the Saints' seemingly unstoppable spread-the-wealth attack he should continue to net at least 6-9 targets per contest. Miami has performed marginally against the pass allowing the seventh-most 20-yard pass plays. Throw in the Fins' inflexibility up front, and Moore could be a vertical slayer on South Beach.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 87 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 14 fantasy points

Mike Wallace, Pit, WR (14%)
Matchup: vs. Min
Featured as a Shocker Special two weeks ago, The Reporter hasn't quite delivered front-page news. Though he's averaged a respectable 49.3 yards per contest, he's splashed pay-dirt just one time in six games. The latter number could increase this week. The Purple People Eaters have manhandled opponents (sans Ray Rice) in the trenches, limiting rushers to just 3.8 yards per carry. However, vertically they've left a lot to be desired. Opponents have totaled the second-most explosive pass plays (20-yards plus) against the Vikes. Foot-sprained corner Antoine Winfield's likely absence only intensifies their situation. Suffice to say, Ben Roethlisberger will party like Jeff Reed. Look for the Steelers' speedster to take advantage of his opponent's downfield shortcomings.
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 62 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 12 fantasy points

Greg Olsen, Chi, TE (56%)
Matchup: at Cin
Over the first few weeks of the season, Olsen was more She-Ra than He-Man. But with his role increasing in the Bears' offense and riding the crest of a three-game scoring streak, he should post his finest effort of the season this week in Cincinnati. Because the Bengals employ bracket coverage, numerous voids are presented in the short-field, a hindrance which was exploited endlessly by Matt Schaub. Last week, Steve Slaton and Owen Daniels were provided abundant space within five yards of the line. When the dust settled, the duo combined for 180 receiving yards and three scores. Expect Ron Turner to attack the Queen City Kitties similarly. Olsen should entice double-digit targets and surpass the 60-yard mark for the first time this season.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 64 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 11 fantasy points
