2009-10-22

Donovan McNabb(notes), Phi, QB (76%)
Matchup: at Was
In his most recent gaffe, the absentminded McNabb not only forgot the number of remaining timeouts, but also who he was playing last week. After tallying only 269 yards without a touchdown against the rancid Raiders, McRib is a suspect play this week in Washington. Surprisingly, the ‘Skins have not allowed a multi-TD passer this season, limiting gunslingers to a mere 182.5 yards per game and five scores, equal to the fourth-fewest fantasy points conceded. In his recent history against ‘Skins, the veteran has struggled. Last season, he averaged just 213 yards per game with zero scores in two contests against them. Dragged to the turf six times by Oakland last week, McNabb will likely be badgered incessantly again this week. Unless the Eagles fix their "fundamental breakdowns," it could be another dose of disappointment for the dimming Philly star.
Fearless Forecast: 20-34, 248 passing yards, 1 touchdown, 2 interceptions, 14 fantasy points

Adrian Peterson, Min, RB (99%)
Matchup: at Pit
For those who subscribe to the "Always start your studs" theory, listing the Purple Jesus as a lame is complete sacrilege. Their argument: his otherworldly abilities could lead to banner numbers regardless of opponent. Although their reasons are justified, Peterson isn't immune from poor performances. Remember Weeks 3 and 5 last year? Mike Tomlin admitted All Day is "the best football player in the world right now." Translation: he will be the focal point of mastermind Dick LeBeau's gameplan. An aggressive, run-blitz crazed scheme will surely be implemented, especially with Troy Polamalu(notes) healthy. Pittsburgh hasn't allowed a 100-yard rusher in 28 straight games. This year, they've also held tugboats to just 3.3 yards per carry, 90.3 total yards per game and two scores, equal to the fewest fantasy points allowed. Demoting Peterson is unthinkable, but the odds are somewhat favorable he posts bland totals.
Fearless Forecast: 20 carries, 72 rushing yards, 1 reception, 9 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 8 fantasy points

Pierre Thomas(notes), NO, RB (76%)
Matchup: at Mia
For one week only, the Noise is calling off his long-running bromance with the PT Bruiser. Unsettling matchups can be a home-wrecker. Miami has swarmed rushers with the instinct of blood-thirsty sharks, not helmet-wearing porpoises. In five games, they've conceded a mere 3.2 yards per carry, 106.8 total yards per game and four scores to RBs, equal to the seventh-fewest fantasy points allowed. Thomas is clearly more talented than Mike Bell(notes), but the goal-line poacher's moderate success inside the five last week is very disconcerting. Similar to the Ray Rice-Willis McGahee(notes) situation earlier this year, PT will have to break runs to score six, a frightening prospect for those in TD-heavy formats. Despite the concern, there is hope he could regain touches near the chalk. Sean Payton remarked earlier this week the backfield formula "isn't exact." In a bye-heavy week, he's still a suitable flex and RB2 option in deeper formats, but for those in shallower leagues, Joseph Addai(notes) (at StL), Marshawn Lynch(notes) (at Car) and even Leon Washington(notes) (vs. Oak) are safer plays.
Fearless Forecast: 14 carries, 66 rushing yards, 2 reception, 11 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 7 fantasy points

Brandon Jacobs, NYG, RB (80%)
Matchup: vs. Ari
Angry mobs equipped with pitchforks and torches are starting to build. The Football Frankenstein has been an abysmal failure. Drafted on average around pick No. 12 overall, the freakish runner, openly frustrated by his performance, has appeared timid and unassertive. The results support this observation. Jacobs ranks 30th in points per game at his position, averaging just 3.6 yards per carry and 64.7 rushing yards per game. Shockingly, the Cardinals boast the league's top run defense limiting rushers to a horrid 2.7 yards per carry. They've also yielded the fourth-fewest fantasy points to plowshares. Eventually, Jacobs will tally profitable results, but based on the unfriendly matchup and his recent mellow performances, he's pine worthy in Week 7.
Fearless Forecast: 19 carries, 67 rushing yards, 1 reception, 5 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 7 fantasy points

Steve Smith, Car, WR (80%)
Matchup: vs. Buf
Despite Carolina's consecutive wins, Smith has expressed "bittersweet" emotions over the teams' recent surge and his lack of involvement in the passing game. He's even gone as far to say "I'm no longer an asset to the team." Whining has always been one of Smith's finer talents. With a competent quarterback, the multi-time All-Pro would still be a fantasy baron, but because a Jake Delhomme pass couldn't pierce tissue paper, he will continue to wallow, especially this week against the Bills. As John Fox described with an excellent basketball analogy earlier this week, he would rather shoot layups (run) than rely on 3-pointers (pass). Due to Buffalo's gross inadequacies between the hashmarks, Williams and Stewart will be fully utilized. Overcoming a plethora of injuries - and because most teams have demoralized them via the ground - the Bills have performed terrifically against the pass, surrendering the fewest fantasy points to wideouts and the third-fewest 20-yard pass plays. Smith, who has caught just 45.7 percent of passes thrown his direction, is due for another major letdown.
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 48 receiving yards, 0 touchdown, 4 fantasy points

Anquan Boldin(notes), Ari, WR (77%)
Matchup: at NYG
Boldin stated Wednesday he's a game-time decision with an ankle sprain, saying his availability for Sunday's pivotal clash against the Giants is "up in the air right now." Because he's a warrior – remember he refused to take pain killers for his shattered face last year – there's a very strong likelihood he will suit up Sunday. However, he shouldn't for your fantasy team. When Boldin played through a similar setback Week 1 versus San Francisco, he completely vanished, totaling just two catches for 19 yards. On paper, he may be slated for No. 2 action, but Steve Breaston(notes) will be Kurt Warner's(notes) true primary second option. As the Giants secondary proved last week, they're not nearly as good as the numbers may indicate. Recall they faced several UFL caliber quarterbacks (i.e. Jason Campbell(notes), Josh Johnson(notes)/Byron Leftwich, Matt Cassel(notes) and JaMarcus Russell(notes)) before being dissected by Brees. Still, the incredibly tough veteran is unemployable even if he avoids the inactive list.
Fearless Forecast: 3 receptions, 34 receiving yards, 0 touchdown, 3 fantasy points

Braylon Edwards(notes), NYJ, WR (74%)
Matchup: at Oak
Don Flamingo's brief revival on South Beach was exactly that – brief. Due to Mark Sanchez'(notes) inefficiencies and, as Rex Ryan noted earlier this week, the increase of two-deep coverage schemes being used against the Jets, Edwards' acquisition has been "good news-bad news." Offensive coordinators have creatively shifted around top targets to avoid the Black Death, Nnamdi Asomugha(notes). As a result, No. 1s have performed 12.1 percent above the league average against Oakland according to Football Outsiders. However, only one receiver has reached the 80-yard mark against the Raiders this season. Given the struggles of the Silver and Black's run defense and Sanchez, Thomas Jones(notes) and Leon Washington will be the focus of the gameplan, stymieing scoring opportunities for Edwards. Austin Collie(notes) (at StL), Hakeem Nicks(notes) (vs. Ari) and Sidney Rice(notes) (at Pit) are better plays.
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 42 receiving yards, 0 touchdown, 4 fantasy points

Vernon Davis(notes), SF, TE (60%)
Matchup: at Hou
Davis, timid and apprehensive in his route-running two weeks ago against Atlanta, hasn't quite conquered the demons of inconsistency. Expect another rollercoaster ride this week. Though deplorable up front, DeMeco Ryans(notes) and his cohorts have routinely stuffed tight ends this season. They've surrendered just one touchdown along with 3.2 receptions and 40.8 yards per game equal to the fifth-fewest fantasy points conceded. With Frank Gore(notes) back at full-strength and Michael Crabtree(notes) slated for action, opportunities for Davis will be few-and-far between, especially in Jimmy Raye's largely conservative system. Emerging talent Brian Cushing(notes) will have his hands full, but his superb speed and dexterity should be able to keep Davis at bay. You're still playing VD in most leagues, particularly PPR formats, but the end-zone could be elusive.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 50 receiving yards, 0 touchdown, 5 fantasy points
