2009-12-23

Vince Young, Ten, QB (18%)
Matchup: vs. SD
Young is shining up his jingle bells for what will surely be a Vinsane-in-the-membrane performance on Christmas night. Commanding arguably the most dangerous 7-7 team in the AFC Wild Card hunt, the resurgent signal caller has shed his unjustified light-throwing label tossing 249 yards per game with seven touchdowns in his past three. He's also chipped in 28 rushing yards per game. Accuracy still isn't one of Young's strong suits but with first mate, Captain Quick (Chris Johnson), at his disposal a simple five-yard screen can instantly stretch into a 70-yard touchdown. The return of Justin Gage, who snagged two TD passes last week, also enhances his value. The two teams, stemming from a 2007 clash in which Shawne Merriman, who was victimized by an alleged "cheap shot," suffered a devastating knee injury, harbor a great deal of animosity toward one another. Suffice it to say, the two won't exchange secret Santa gifts. However, look for Young to deliver plenty of presents. The strides San Diego has made in run defense has come at a vertical cost. Teams, like Cincinnati last week, have bombarded the Chargers. Over the past four weeks, they've allowed 253.8 yards per game and eight touchdowns, including a three-score game to the mighty Brady Quinn. Young will taste candy cane sweet.
Fearless Forecast: 25-42, 258 passing yards, 2 touchdowns, 1 interception, 27 rushing yards, 21 fantasy points 

Jerome Harrison, Cle, RB (23%)
Matchup: vs. Oak
Owners who had the foresight to deploy Harrison a week ago hit the (expletive) lottery. His unforgettable 286 rushing yards, the third-best single game effort in NFL history, and TD hat trick will be scrawled down in the annals of fantasy history as the greatest effort 98 percent of owners never benefited from. Incensed readers who sent vitriolic emails to "experts" for their recommendation of Chris Jennings don't deserve blame. Augustus Gloop (Eric Mangini) would employ an Oompah Loopmah (not MJD) for a chance to swim in a giant cup of hot coco. But despite Mangenius' treachery, and presumed voracious appetite, we're confident he won't demote or consume the record-breaker. Harrison has certainly proven he can be the lead dog. Assuming he nets the start, the versatile Chihuahua should pack a vicious bite versus Oakland. Since Week 11, the Raiders have allowed 4.9 yards per carry, 162 total yards per game and four scores to rushers, equal to the ninth-most fantasy points. Cleveland's rapidly improving offensive line should dominate the interior for the third-straight week. Another 30-plus carries is highly unlikely but with 18-22 touches, Harrison should pay a handsome dividend.
Fearless Forecast: 20 carries, 84 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 16 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 16 fantasy points

Jason Snelling, Atl, RB (24%)
Matchup: vs. Buf
Michael Turner is a broken down horse who deserves a trip to the Kibbles n' Bits factory. Tweaking his ankle yet again last week, the popular early-round pick exited stage left almost immediately. Though the starter is determined not to "shut it down right now," his odds of suiting up Sunday appear long. Enter Snelling. When pressed into starting action, the converted fullback has performed admirably. In the five games in which he's garnered at least 10 touches, the bruiser has averaged 78 total yards per game with four scores. The Bills have made some minor improvements in run defense in recent weeks, but they'are still one of the most vulnerable interior units in the league. On the season they've surrendered 4.9 yards per carry, 188.2 total yards and 1.4 touchdowns per game to rushers, equal to the most fantasy points. Because Mike Smith is dedicated to a ground-pounding approach, Snelling should be leaned on heavily in an attempt to soften Buffalo's unyielding pass defense. Start him with confidence.
Fearless Forecast: 15 carries, 66 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 16 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 14 fantasy points

Ahmad Bradshaw, NYG, RB (21%)
Matchup: vs. Car
Despite a cumbersome foot injury, the Bride of Frankenstein has outshined his backfield hetero-life-mate, Brandon Jacobs, over the past several games. His explosiveness, versatility and deceptive power explain why Tom Coughlin and company continue to turn to him, particularly inside the 10. Over the past three weeks, the former seventh-round pick has averaged a terrific 5.1 yards per touch, 79.3 total yards per game and totaled three touchdowns. The Frankensteins should be utilized heavily this week against Carolina. Contrary to their stiff pass defense, the Panthers have underperformed interiorly. Since Week 11, they've surrendered 4.4 yards per carry, 160.8 total yards per game and six TDs to rushers, equal to the fifth-most fantasy points. Eli Manning has been sensational of late, but because the Giants offensive line has rediscovered its hole-creating identity, the run will surely be the featured philosophy. Bradshaw balls.
Fearless Forecast: 12 carries, 53 rushing yards, 3 reception, 22 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 13 fantasy points

Dwayne Bowe, KC, WR (25%)
Matchup: at Cin
In his first game back from suspension, Bowe posted mediocre numbers totaling four catches for just 56 yards against the Browns. He and his teammates suffered from a contagious case of the dropsies. However, the silver lining on an otherwise unmemorable day: he attracted 10 targets. Look for RamBowe to have his M-16 locked and loaded this week. Cincinnati's bracket scheme has clamped down on wideouts in recent weeks. Since Week 11, the Bengals have yielded just three 70-yard performances and five touchdowns to wideouts, equal to the ninth-fewest fantasy points. But the Chiefs' top target is one of the league's elite talents. His size, body control and strength are incredibly difficult to contain even when garnering extra attention. Cincy couldn't bottle up similarly skilled pass catchers Calvin Johnson and Vincent Jackson earlier this season. If Matt Cassel can stave off the Bengals pass rush, Bowe should have a fine day.
Fearless Forecast: 6 receptions, 77 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 13 fantasy points

Braylon Edwards, NYJ, WR (29%)
Matchup: at Ind
Banana Hands loves to attract off-the-field attention. From speeding tickets to dust ups with LeBron's posse to paternity lawsuits, he certainly doesn't exhibit a squeaky clean image. Hopefully, Braylon's baby's mama demands he never holds the child. Despite his chaotic life away from football, Edwards has occasionally shown flashes of his former All-Pro self. Yes, the long-bomb he botched in Toronto was laughable, but he has splashed pay-dirt in two of his past three games and is coming off his first 100-yard effort since Week 15 last year. Indy's injury ravaged secondary continues to give up noteworthy performances to large targets. Brandon Marshall humiliated the Colts for an NFL record 21 receptions two weeks ago and Mike Sims-Walker tallied 64 yards and a score against them last week. If he coats his hands in Mrs. Butterworth, Edwards could compile superb WR2 numbers. Indy has given up the seventh-most fantasy points to wideouts over the past five weeks.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 65 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 12 fantasy points

Josh Morgan, SF, WR (3%)
Matchup: vs. Det
Morgan has always possessed the tools to develop into a premier wideout. But inefficiencies at the quarterback position combined with his slow development have blanketed his abilities. However, Jimmy Raye's axis-tilting shift to a more liberal passing system has greatly enhanced the promising wideout's production and, most importantly, his confidence. Though still minimally owned, the up-and-comer has averaged a healthy 7.3 targets 5.5 receptions and 43.5 yards per game since Week 12. During that stretch, he's also found the end-zone twice. The Niners will likely attack Detroit vertically this week in an attempt to revitalize Alex Smith, who's struggled in his past two contests. The loathsome Lions have allowed nine touchdowns and six 70-yard-plus games to receivers over the past five weeks, equal to the most fantasy points. Morgan may not be a household name yet, but he's a rising young player who's definitely worth the gamble.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 56 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 11 fantasy points

Jermichael Finley, GB, TE (40%)
Matchup: vs. Sea
For months we've speculated about Finley's dynamite potential. It appears he's finally tapping into it. Despite operating at around "80-85 percent" due to a bum knee, the ultra-talented tight end continues to deliver one headline performance after another. Finley has been Aaron Rodgers' favorite target over the past five weeks netting 8.2 targets, 6.2 receptions and 60.4 yards per game. He's also scored three times. Over that span, only Dallas Clark, Antonio Gates, Vernon Davis and Fred Davis have outpaced the newcomer. Don't expect the Cheese Whiz train to slow down anytime soon. After last week's embarrassing blowout loss to Tampa, the Hawks have officially packed it in. Dissected vertically, they've conceded numerous explosive plays in recent weeks, including to tight ends. Since Week 11 they've allowed the fifth-most fantasy points to enlarged targets. Defensive coordinators have thrown zone and man coverage at Finley with little success. Corners, who've attempted to jam him at the line, have experienced significant resistance. Because of his mammoth size and considerable athleticism, he is a matchup nightmare. If A-Rod continues to line him up in the crosshairs, he simply won't be stopped.
Fearless Forecast: 7 receptions, 72 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 13 fantasy points

