2009-11-25

Jay Cutler, Chi, QB (45%)
Matchup: at Min
Barrages of poison-tipped darts have been blown at Cutler by the local and national media over the past few days. In their eyes, the Chicago fire of 1871 was less of a disaster. Everyone has donned their Freudian hats in an attempt to explain the quarterback's ungraceful, Grossmanesque downfall. Some have idiotically gone as far as calling him an "average player." The overthrows and misreads are entirely on No. 6 – mechanically he is certainly flawed – but without a suitable stable of receivers and even average offensive line, failure is hard to dodge. Many would say his matchup with Minnesota is less than desirable. Jared Allen and his QB harassing cohorts should have a field day. But the Vikings are susceptible to the pass. On the season they've allowed 258.3 passing yards and 1.4 touchdowns per contest to signal callers. More importantly, the Norsemen have picked off just one pass since Week 5. Cutler will be pestered. The running game will undoubtedly struggle. The Bears, who defensively are a mess, will likely be playing from behind. If the admonished passer can establish an early cadence and find Matt Forte in the flat, the cooker will depressurize, at least temporarily.
Fearless Forecast: 28-48, 304 passing yards, 2 touchdowns, 1 interception, 13 rushing yards, 23 fantasy points 

Jason Snelling, Atl, RB (60%)
Matchup: vs. TB
Two weeks ago RB-hungry owners combed their league's waiver wire in a frantic attempt to acquire the converted fullback. Only a select few emerged from the fray with back on roster. The winners should consider themselves lucky. Snelling, fantasy's equivalent of the Zhu Zhu hamster, is a rusher in demand. With Michael Turner likely out again this week and possibly beyond and Jerious Norwood also a gigantic question mark, the between-the-tackles grinder is destined to mash Tampa's group of defensive Mr. Potatoheads. Since Week 7, the Bucs have surrendered 5.1 yards per carry, 166 total yards per game and five scores to rushers, equal to the ninth-most fantasy points allowed. With the Falcons likely to establish scoreboard supremacy early, Snelling could gain appreciable points salting away the clock in the second half. His second straight multi-TD seems like a certainty. (UPDATE: Michael Turner practiced again on Thursday, though on a "limited" basis. He is slated to be a full-blown game-time decision Sunday. If The Burner is active, Snelling obviously is not a flame recommendation.)
Fearless Forecast: 23 carries, 90 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 21 receiving yards, 2 touchdowns, 23 fantasy points

Justin Forsett, Sea, RB (51%)
Matchup: at StL
Regardless of Julius Jones' situation, Forsett is USDA certified Grade-A flame. Collectively, Hawks rushers have averaged 3.7 yards per carry and the fewest total yards in the league. Prior to Forsett's rise to prominence, Jim Mora sporadically tried to feed the rushing attack. Only success against flaccid opponents was achieved. But the former Cal standout has jumpstarted the ground game. Though he rushed for only nine yards on an equal number of carries last week in Minnesota, the undersized runner – the latest height-challenged back to reap success – has averaged 119 total yards per game and totaled two scores in his past two games. Decisive, quick and powerful according to Mora, he is a terrific multidimensional weapon. Those skills should cause chaos in St. Louis. The Rams have performed poorly against the run for much of the season, especially of late. Since Week 7, they've yielded 5.5 yards per carry, 191.8 total yards per game and five scores to backs, equal to the third-most fantasy points allowed. Jones will start if healthy, but even if he suits up, Forsett should net at least 12-15 touches. (minus Jones)
Fearless Forecast: 16 carries, 84 rushing yards, 5 receptions, 28 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 17 fantasy points

LeSean McCoy, Phi, RB (58%)
Matchup: vs. Was
With Brian Westbrook in a daze, the Noise has danced romantically with the rookie's Fathead likeness over the past couple weeks. Our song: Spandu Ballet's "True." The Eagles staff finally pulled its heads-from-posterior last week against the Bears, running McCoy 20 times. Despite what could've been a costly late-game fumble, he totaled 99 yards and a touchdown. In three starts this season, the multi-tooled back has averaged 82.3 total yards per game and splashed pay-dirt twice. Similar numbers lie ahead against division rival Washington, which could again be without premier run stopper Albert Haynesworth. Even with the hole-plunger active, the 'Skins have struggled containing the run. Since Week 7, they've conceded 5.4 yards per carry to RBs. Assuming Marty Mornhinweg continues to strive for balance and the Eagles' front can sustain its blocks, McCoy should again be a very useful RB2 in 12-team formats.
Fearless Forecast: 17 carries, 75 rushing yards, 4 receptions, 22 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 15 fantasy points

Chris Chambers, KC, WR (24%)
Matchup: at SD
Revenge could taste very sweet for the former Charger. Kicked to the curb by San Diego earlier this season, the veteran has regained his long-distance form in KC. Since joining the Chiefs he's scored twice and averaged 83 yards per game. Over the past five weeks, only three receivers have surpassed the 70-yard mark against the Bolts. But Chambers' familiarity with the secondary and motivation to prove his previous employer wrong are factors which can't be ignored. After last week's stunning upset of Pittsburgh, the wideout sincerely believes Todd Haley's offensive is finally "progressing." No longer burdened by Larry Johnson's black cloud and with Matt Cassel's time in the pocket increasing, Chambers' observations aren't farfetched. Another competitive performance is in order.
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 76 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 13 fantasy points

Pierre Garcon, Ind, WR (23%)
Matchup: at Hou
Inconsistency has occasionally plagued the former Mount Union star, but over the past few weeks he has really discovered a groove. As Stampede Blue noted earlier this week, Garcon is growing up right before people's eyes. His first career 100-yard effort last week in Baltimore is proof. With Austin Collie taking a backseat and more defenses forced to rotate help to Reggie Wayne's side, the second-year wideout has drawn increased looks from Peyton Manning. Since Week 7 he's averaged 8.6 targets and 59 yards per game. Houston has yielded the fewest fantasy points to receivers during that same span, but with matchups against vertically challenged Buffalo and Tennessee that ranking is deceiving. Garcon snapped five catches for 60 yards in their first meeting. Expect him to pay a higher dividend against a Houston secondary minus starting safety Eugene Wilson.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 66 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 12 fantasy points

Michael Crabtree, SF, WR (34%)
Matchup: vs. Jax
The third time will be the charm for Crabtree. Failing to march into flame territory in his previous two appearances on this list, the sticky-fingered rookie should easily surpass the seven-point threshold this time around. Corner Tyron Brackenridge, filling in for injured former All-Pro Rashean Mathis, was humilated last week by Terrell Owens. Though Crabtree doesn't possess the experience of T.O., his slick route-running and size will wreak havoc. The Jags have allowed the fifth-most fantasy points to receivers since Week 7, surrendering a pair of fives in touchdowns and 70-yard performances. San Francisco has produced unsteady yields in the passing game for much of the season. But Alex Smith's comfort level and success operating out of the spread has forced Mike Singletary and Jimmy Raye to reinvent the wheel. The former Red Raider, a huge proponent of the system, is certainly pushing the staff to stretch personnel packages horizontally. Assuming the handcuffs are again taken off Smith, Crabtree should be an elite No. 3 in Week 12.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 62 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 12 fantasy points

Jermichael Finley, GB, TE (18%)
Matchup: at Det
Forget turkey. Finley instead plans to feast on a holiday delicacy - Lion. After missing several games with a sprained knee, the talented tight end is finally 100 percen and producing. Last week against San Fran, he attracted 10 targets catching seven passes for 54 yards. Interestingly, he operated almost exclusively out of the slot in an attempt to draw one-on-one coverage. If Mike McCarthy follows a similar blueprint, Finley will carve up the Hello Kitties. His size and athleticism is a matchup nightmare. On the year, the Lions have allowed nine touchdowns to oversized targets, the most in the league. Look for that number to increase in Week 12. For frustrated Jason Witten owners fed up with his underperformance or worried about his availability on Thanksgiving, Finley could be just what the doctor ordered.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 68 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 12 fantasy points
