2009-11-25

Donovan McNabb, Phi, QB (87%)
Matchup: vs. Was
Viewers could've consumed the entire Lord of the Rings trilogy during the time it took McNabb to exchange pumpkin pie recipes with Cutler after last Sunday night's game. After this week, he may need to seek the advice Ron Jaworski. Many pundits have mistakenly categorized the Redskins' No. 1 pass defense ranking as misleading. With St. Louis, Detroit, Tampa, Carolina and KC on its resume, Washington has indeed faced its fair share of cupcakes. But even against respectable passing offenses (i.e. last week at Dallas) the 'Skins secondary has performed admirably. On the year, only two passers, Matthew Stafford and Eli Manning, have eclipsed the 200-yard mark against them and only one, Kyle Orton in Week 10, has thrown for multiple scores. McNabb was limited to just 156 yards and a score in their first meeting, largely due to an early Philly lead. But this is a defense playing with marked confidence. Consider safer alternatives (i.e. Brett Favre vs. Chi, Carson Palmer vs. Cle or Matt Ryan vs. TB).
Fearless Forecast: 18-31, 218 passing yards, 1 touchdown, 1 interception, 13 fantasy points

Rashard Mendenhall, Pit, RB (77%)
Matchup: at Bal
For one week only, the Noise's love affair with Mendenhall hits the skids. Despite averaging a ridiculous 5.2 yards per carry since Week 7, Bruce Arians' insistence on passing inside the 10 has made the former Illinois standout wildly inconsistent in recent weeks. Case in point, after running effectively for much of the game in last week's slip up at KC, he touched the rock just one time over the final 4:54. Maddening. Another unbalanced pass-to-run ratio should be expected this week in Baltimore. The Ravens have regained their defensive mojo over the past several weeks, especially up front. Over their past five games they've held rushers to just 3.4 yards per carry and 99 total yards per game. Ben Roethlisberger is expected to take snaps after passing post-concussion tests with flying colors, but in a critical contest for both teams, Ray Lewis earns the check. Remember the last time Mendenhall ventured into Ravens territory he left with his arm in a sling.
Fearless Forecast: 18 carries, 65 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 14 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 7 fantasy points

Laurence Maroney, NE, RB (60%)
Matchup: at NO
The No. 1 item on Maroney's wish list this holiday shopping season: anything Voltron. Last week, the goofy rusher told the Boston Globe the Patriots backfield was coming together like the motorized elements that comprised the 80s cartoon icon. Unfortunately, that negatively affects the back's fantasy value. With Sammy Morris slated to return Monday and Kevin Faulk's 7-10 touch role solidified, Maroney's per carries average is sure to diminish. Even if he were to net 15-20 totes in Monday's mammoth bayou battle, he isn't a recommended start. Sedrick Ellis' return to the lineup greatly enhances a Saints defense which has been pounded by the run. When healthy during the first seven weeks of the season, Ellis helped limit rushers to just 3.9 yards per carry and 80.5 rushing yards per game. Simply put: the D-lineman is a man-eating game changer. In what we'll surely be a fireworks show, Maroney will fade into the background.
Fearless Forecast: 15 carries, 54 rushing yards, 1 reception, 8 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 6 fantasy points

Kevin Smith, Det, RB (76%)
Matchup: vs. GB
Likely minus Matthew Stafford and Calvin Johnson, Smith will be the focus of the Packers' defensive gameplan. The flexible rusher was an absolute beast last week totaling 149 yards (104 receiving) and a score on just 16 touches. But compared to Green Bay, Cleveland is a group of yappy pink poodles. Dom Capers' 3-4 defense has typically applied little pressure on the pocket, instead dropping defenders back in coverage or attacking gaps on running plays. The results against the run have been spectacular. RBs have averaged just 3.6 yards per carry against the Pack. Green Bay has also surrendered the third-fewest fantasy points to rushers this season. Smith totaled just 61 yards on 15 carries against his NFC North nemesis Week 6. A similar letdown is in order.
Fearless Forecast: 13 carries, 48 rushing yards, 4 receptions, 19 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 6 fantasy points

Steve Smith, Car, WR (87%)
Matchup: at NYJ
Receivers matched against Jets have routinely been featured in this space. No player is immune to catching the Darelle Disease. Just ask Andre Johnson, Randy Moss and Marques Colston. Smith will be the latest victim. Unlike the aforementioned Pro Bowlers, the slippery wideout doesn't have a complementary option to keep defenses honest. Mushin Muhammad has actually turned into Bullwinkle. Clearly the focus of Carolina's offense is to wear down opponents between-the-hashmarks with DeAngelo Williams and Jonathan Stewart. New York has improved against the run in recent weeks surrendering just 4.0 yards per carry to rushers since Week 7, but stopping rushers is still the Jets' primary weakness. With Revis draped all over him, Smith will be nothing more than a decoy.
Fearless Forecast: 3 receptions, 24 receiving yards, 0 touchdown, 2 fantasy points

Miles Austin, Dal, WR (82%)
Matchup: vs. Oak
Fame and fortune has come at a heavy cost for Austin. After accumulating galactic numbers from Weeks 5-8, the downward-trending wideout has totaled just nine catches for 116 yards and a score in his past three contests. Defenses have rotated coverage over to his side, which explains why his banner production has quickly ceased. Great receivers early in their careers have garnered similar attention. Once Austin makes the necessary adjustments, he'll recapture the magic. But don't expect it to happen this week. Though the Raiders have allowed the 11th-most 20-yard pass plays this season, Nnamdi Asomugha will likely blanket the young wideout, stymieing his scoring potential. In an attempt to gain breathing room, Jason Garrett will creatively shift Austin around, which could free him downfield. Still, only six receivers have reached the 70-yard mark against Oakland this year. Don't let Austin ruin your turkey.
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 38 receiving yards, 0 touchdown, 3 fantasy points

Santonio Holmes, Pit, WR (71%)
Matchup: at Bal
After last year's scintillating Super Bowl performance, the bar was set extremely high for Holmes this year. Unfortunately, he's exhibited the hops of an obese penguin. Despite being outshined consistently by ageless teammate Hines Ward and occasionally Mike Wallace, owners still confidently insert Holmes into their lineups every week. Stunning. Though he's averaged a robust 81.5 yards per game over his past five games, he hasn't crossed the chalk since Week 1. Against the reinvigorated Ravens, that streak will continue. They've allowed the third-fewest fantasy points to receivers since Week 7. Baltimore is a team which relishes eliminating the strengths of the opposition. Look at what it accomplished last week against the Colts (91 total yards for Wayne and Dallas Clark). This week, they ground Pittsburgh's aerial show.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 57 receiving yards, 0 touchdown, 5 fantasy points

Jeremy Shockey, NO, TE (83%)
Matchup: vs. NE
In Monday's Bourbon Street brawl with the Patriots, Shockey will again be handcuffed. Over the past three weeks, the opinionated tight end – he laughable said Lebron James couldn't even make an NFL practice squad because of his 4.9 40-yard time – has fallen on hard times. During that stretch he's caught just eight passes for 85 yards. He's also only scored one touchdown since Week 1. The Patriots have done a masterful job muffling tight ends this season, surrendering the eighth-fewest fantasy points. And it's not like they've faced suspect competition. Position cornerstones Tony Gonzalez, Kellen Winslow and Dallas Clark totaled just 90 yards against them. Shockey gets stuffed.
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 36 receiving yards, 0 touchdown, 3 fantasy points

