2014-10-02

Matt Ryan, Atl, QB (91%)
Matchup: at NYG
Whether it's the air travel, uncomfortable beds, grass tracks or slipped laxatives, something has negatively affected the homebody's performance on the road. Over his past 10 games away from the creature comforts of the Georgia Dome, Ryan has failed to eclipse 20 fantasy points in standard formats six times. To be fair, he skewered a Vikings secondary to the tune of 298 yards and three touchdowns on the road, but he also tossed two interceptions. With Julio Jones practically uncoverable, Roddy White nearing full health and little ground game to lean on, most would consider Ryan a lock for QB1 numbers in Week 5. But discounting the Giants is a terrible mistake. Fresh off a thrashing of Kirk Cousins and Washington, DBs Prince Amukamura and Dominque Rodgers-Cromartie enter this week with heads held high. On the year, the tandem has routinely dominated the opposition. Combined they've surrendered a 51.4 QB rating and 47.7 catch percentage. The duo ranks second only to Denver's Chris Harris and Aqib Talib in pass coverage according to Pro Football Focus. Ryan has found pay-dirt at least three times in three of four games, but I'm not betting he takes a bite out of the Big Apple. 
Fearless Forecast: 23-38, 270 passing yards, 2 passing touchdowns, 2 interceptions, 3 rushing yards, 19.7 fantasy points

Marshawn Lynch, Sea, RB (83%)
Matchup: at Was
Every year only a select group of commodities are tabbed "matchup proof" by the fantasy community. Usually, they're defined as high-volume players in ideal situations who've performed unfailingly over an extended period of time. Lynch, to most, is one such commodity. Though the tag applies in many ways, no player is 100 percent foolproof. Disastrous performances afflict everyone. Even when LaDainian Tomlinson established the new NFL record for touchdowns in a season by a RB (2006), he didn't cross the 10 fantasy point threshold twice in 16 games. Again, no mortal is immune. Since 2012, Lynch has achieved "Flame" status 71.5 percent of the time, making him a true consistency king. However, this week his crown will be tarnished. Washington, one of the more bendable rush Ds in the land last year, has righted the ship between the hashmarks. Due to the stellar play of Brian Orakpo and others, rushers have compiled a mere 3.24 yards per carry and 77 rushing yards per game against it. Equally impressive, only one RB has recorded a 20-plus yard run on the 'Skins. Lynch will get his customary 18-22 carry load, but "Least" Mode makes a guest appearance. 
Fearless Forecast: 19 carries, 77 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 12 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 10.4 fantasy points

Jamaal Charles, KC, RB (93%)
Matchup: at SF
Fantasy's divine child returned in spectacular fashion Monday. Against the wayward Pats, he totaled 108 yards and logged a TD hat-trick in a humiliating victory. Outside of cramps, he emerged from the game relatively unscathed. But this week brings a much stiffer test. The Niners, still huffing and puffing from their slow start, remain a hungry team despite upending Philly last week. Defensively, they're not the impregnable castle they've been the past couple of seasons. Aldon Smith's absence has certainly taken a toll. Still, they're hardly the Jags of the Left Coast, especially when sniffing out the run. Thus far, they've yielded 3.44 yards per carry and the second-fewest fantasy points to RBs. More specifically, Patrick Willis and friends have done a marvelous job collapsing on versatile running backs. DeMarco Murray, Andre Ellington, Matt Forte and Darren Sproles were all held to 25 receiving yards or less. Because of his blazing jets, Charles is always one missed assignment away from a house call. However, on the road, facing an inflexible opponent and likely to cede 8-10 touches to Knile Davis, he is prime "Lame" material. BLASPHEMY?! I think not. 
Fearless Forecast: 16 carries, 61 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 14 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 9.7 fantasy points

Emmanuel Sanders, Den, WR (65%)
Matchup: vs. Ari
With Demaryius Thomas slumping, Sanders stepped to the forefront over the first four weeks, developing a seemingly unbreakable bond with Mr. Papa John's. Though he didn't find the end-zone, his 25 catches for 334 yards placed him inside the top-six in PPR settings. Just as dazzling under the hood, he ranks inside the top-12 in WR rating, yards per route run and deep-ball catch percentage according to Pro Football Focus. However, with Wes Welker back in the mix, Julius Thomas expected to take on a larger role and Demaryius, who's dealt with a nagging foot injury, presumably at or near 100 percent, his glorious start could morph into an uneven ending. Arizona's unblemished record can be largely attributed to its defense. Its frontline has received the most praise, but its backfield also deserves credit. DBs Jerraud Powers, Patrick Peterson and Antonio Cromartie have given up a combined 11.21 yards per catch. Cromartie has also surrendered a 47.9 QB rating and 40.0 catch percentage to his assignments. Off consecutive 100-yard efforts, Sanders regresses to the mean. 
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 66 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 10.3 fantasy points 

DeSean Jackson, Was, WR (51%)
Matchup: vs. Sea
Imagine rolling around in cow manure then attempting to swat off pesky flies for hours on end. That's what it must feel like for a wide receiver against Richard Sherman, Earl Thomas and Kam Chancellor. Though "exposed" a bit by Philip Rivers and San Diego a couple weeks back, the menacing 'Hawks have again been up to their fantasy-reducing ways. On the year, Sherman and Thomas have surrendered a 52.3 QB rating and 40.0 percent catch rate to assignments. Overall, Seattle's secondary has given up the ninth-fewest fantasy points to wide receivers. Jackson is arguably one of the best downfield weapons in the game, but still limited somewhat by a shoulder injury and with uncertainty over Kirk Cousins growing, he's a highly suspect play. Keep in mind 56.1 percent of completed passes Seattle has allowed have gone for gains of 10 yards or less. Odds of even a marginal fantasy day are not in D-Jax's favor. 
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 52 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 8.2 fantasy points
