2012-09-26

Cam Newton, Car, QB
Matchup: at Atl
If you ask Steve Smith, Cam couldn't lead a starving pack of 350-pound linemen to an all-you-can-eat nacho bar. His sulking attitude when faced with a large deficit last week was a prime example. Instead of encouraging his teammates to keep fighting, he waived the white flag, sitting on the bench hiding under a towel. A similar scenario could unfold this week. Atlanta, which lost arguably its best pass defender, Brent Grimes, Week 1, has fought through adversity. Over the past two weeks the Falcons secondary bewildered Peyton Manning and Philip Rivers, allowing just one touchdown while forcing five interceptions. Former Eagle Asante Samuel has championed the cause, limiting assignments to just 10.1 yards per catch, the eighth-best mark among corners with at least 200 snaps. Though Cam's completion percentage is up by nearly four percent compared to last year, he's made several erroneous decisions which have led to a number of costly turnovers. He's on pace to throw nearly 10 more picks compared to his rookie season. Last year, his rushing stats bailed him out of an otherwise dreadful performance at the Georgia Dome (237-0-3, 47-1). This year, however, the 'fearless' leader won't be so lucky. If you have viable alternatives, can Cam.
Fearless Forecast: 18-28, 232 passing yards, 0 passing touchdowns, 2 interceptions, 34 rushing yards, 1 rushing touchdown, 19.0 fantasy points




DeMarco Murray, Dal, RB
Matchup: vs. Chi
Starting Murray, who runs behind an offensive line that finds run-blocking challenging, against one of the league's stingiest defenses is about as appealing as being the meat in a sumo wrestler love sandwich. Through three games, the Bears have sniffed out the run effectively. Donald Brown, Cedric Benson and Steven Jackson averaged a combined 3.9 yards per carry and 66.0 total yards against the Monsters of the Midway. At times, Murray has displayed the explosiveness and versatility of a uniquely gifted rusher. Other times, as Rick Gosselin of the Dallas Morning News recently noted, he's bogged down in the backfield, indicative in his seven carries for negative yards last week versus Tampa. As a result, he's currently the 34th-best rusher, one spot behind derailed tank Peyton Hillis, in overall run performance according to Pro Football Focus. Because of Chicago's assertiveness in the trenches and Murray's susceptibility to backpedaling, it doesn't bode well for a standout effort. At best, he's a midrange RB2 in 12-team and deeper leagues this week.


.
Fearless Forecast: 18 carries, 66 rushing yards, 4 receptions, 15 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 11.1 fantasy points



Trent Richardson, Cle, RB
Matchup: at Bal
T-Pain has made it very clear, he's not afraid of "Uncle Ray." But this isn't your run-of-the-mill creepy Uncle who sits around in his skivvies all day munching on Pizza Hut personal death vehicles while watching animals copulate on Nat Geo Wild. No, the Ravens' 'Uncle,' Ray Lewis, is a multi-time Pro Bowler and future first ballot Hall of Famer who is still executing at a high level. And for that reason, the rookie should be shivering in his cleats. Baltimore, no surprise, is an elite run defense, especially at home. Over its past 10 games at M&T, visiting rushers averaged just 3.5 yards per carry. Richardson is a punishing runner who also contributes handsomely in the pass game, but the Browns' bland offensive line hasn't opened holes with much consistency. Against Philly and Buffalo, for example, Richardson netted a lowly 2.2 yards per carry. Another voluminous week is on tap for T-Pain, but given the extremely difficult matchup and run-blocking concerns he should only be stomached in 12-team and deeper formats. A lackluster high-carry, low-yardage yield is on tap.
Fearless Forecast: 19 carries, 58 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 12 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 9.2 fantasy points




DeSean Jackson, Phi, WR
Matchup: vs. NYG
At first glance a matchup against a banged up Giants secondary that's occasionally struggled defending passes beyond 20 yards would be very appealing, especially for a speedster like Jackson. But, as Admiral Ackbar would say, "It's a trap!" The return of Prince Amukamara to New York's defensive backfield greatly bolstered a unit in need. His stellar play last week in Carolina was exactly what the doctor ordered (25.0 catch% allowed). Jackson, motivated to prove he still belongs among the league's elite playmakers, has improved his overall level of play this year. He ranks in the top-20 league-wide in receiving yards and yards per catch (16.7). Still, the matchup is far from encouraging. The Giants front seven are an aggressive bunch that should gash Philly's porous offensive line. That happens, and Michael Vick, as usual, will be running for his life, hindering opportunities downfield to Jackson. Add that to Jeremy Maclin's expected return, and chances are, the wideout could vanish for long stretches. Consider him a WR3 in deeper formats this week.
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 46 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 7.6 fantasy points




Marques Colston, NO, WR
Matchup: at GB
Those wondering why New Orleans is winless through three weeks should look no further than what little Colston has accomplished. In the Saints' past four losses stretching back to last year, the wideout failed to eclipse 75-yards receiving. Typically, when he's been heavily involved in the pass game, 'Nawlins has thrived. His slow start can be primarily attributed to a nagging foot injury. But another explanation for his lack of production stems from the uneven play of the New Orleans offense as a whole. Drew Brees, under intense heat from opposing pass rushers, has thrown under duress 36.8-percent of the time, not a far cry from what Michael Vick and Jay Cutler have experienced this season. That intense pressure added to Colston's physical limitations and the Saints' spread-the-love nature are why he's made a minimal impact. This week, Sam Shields could be another reason. The 13th-best cover-man currently in the game per Pro Football Focus, he's surrendered a catch rate of just 40-percent this season. Though points should be aplenty in Lambeau this week, Colston, yet again, is poised to underachieve.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 52 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 8.9 fantasy points
