2015-09-30

Jeremy Hill, Cin, RB (89%, $23)
Matchup: vs. KC
Cincinnati's matchup with the arrow-less Chiefs should be akin to a classic episode of 'Oprah's Favorite Things.' EVERYONE scores a touchdown. Hill, however, will be the lone exception. You may not believe in vampires, leprechauns, Chupacabra or other urban legends, but sophomore slumps are all too real. Last year, Keenan Allen and Zac Stacy were afflicted leaving broken hearts and busted dreams in their wake. Now, it appears Hill is bearing the curse. A runaway beer truck last year, the rookie is riding on spare tires in the encore. His electric effort last fall was expected to relegate Gio Bernard to mop-up duty, but the table has turned. Hill, beleaguered by fumbles, has looked sluggish, powerless and generally rancid. Through three games, Bernard has dwarfed him in yards per carry, yards after contact and missed tackles percentage. Game flow is partially responsible for the recent snap gap, but unless Hill wakes up soon, his tag-team partner may continue to steal the headlines. KC does present a unique opportunity. Due to the Chiefs' wretched pass defense Cincy should knock at the door early and often. But it could be Bernard, who has nearly double the red-zone touches over the past two weeks, who secures the scoring spotlight. And keep in mind, for as repulsive KC has been in pass D, it's been excellent versus the run giving up just 3.54 yards per carry. Hill will likely draw the start, but that doesn't mean he should for your squad. Give me Devonta Freeman (vs. Hou), Karlos Williams (vs. NYG) and Ryan Mathews (at Was) over him. 
Fearless Forecast: 13 carries, 52 rushing yards, 1 reception, 5 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 6.2 fantasy points

Justin Forsett, Bal, RB (89%, $23)
Matchup: at Pit
Scientists have found water on Mars yet Forsett has yet to find the end-zone or logged a 100-yard game. What is going on in the universe?! Though he's been the preferred carrier in Baltimore's backfield (17.0 touches per game), last year's waiver gem has failed to deliver even serviceable numbers. Against Denver, Oakland and Cincy, he averaged a pedestrian 55.0 total yards per game without a score. Most alarming, his 3.2 yards per carry is a far cry from the 5.2 yards per tote he logged last year. Suffice it to say, the transition from Gary Kubiak to Marc Trestmen hasn't been palatable. On the periphery, Forsett remains one of the league leaders in breakaway percentage and hasn't seen a significant drop-off in other measurements, which bodes well for a turnaround. However, the Ravens' No. 26 rank in run-blocking combined with their forgiving defense and Lorenzo Taliaferro's role at the goal-line have greatly hindered the rusher. Better days lay ahead, but don't expect a rebound in Week 4. Pittsburgh's defense, despite its youth, has collapsed on rushers quickly. It's given up only 2.87 yards per carry and the fewest fantasy points to RBs. Carlos Hyde, off his libido-driving Week 1, was held to just 61 combined yards Week 2 against the Iron Forgers before leaving with an injury in the second half. Throw in the short week, and Forsett is bench-worthy in shallow formats, even if Ryan Shazier, PFF's top-rated inside linebacker versus the run, isn't available. 
Fearless Forecast: 14 carries, 56 rushing yards, 4 receptions, 18 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 9.4 fantasy points

T.J. Yeldon, Jax, RB (51%, $21)
Matchup: at Ind
Let's be real for a moment. Some unspecified fantasy sites out there have anointed Yeldon the second-coming. They'll tell you ad nauseum his laborious workload and three-down skill set will be worth the wait. For those that believe the rookie will develop into a reliable, weekly RB2, by all means sell all your worldly possessions, find the nearest hill and wait for His Holiness to descend from the heavens. It's bound to happen right? In reality, T.J. stands for "Total Junk." At this point in his career, he's a snake-oil salesmen in a football uniform. Though impressively built at 6-foot-1, 225-pounds, Yeldon runs with the conviction of a timid penguin. He does own adequate hands, but he's unassertive between the tackles and underwhelms after contact. His 3.2 yards per carry and 1.8 yards after contact per attempt rank as one of the league's lowest among rushers with at least 80 snaps. And he's operated behind the 10th-best run-blocking unit according to Pro Football Focus. To be fair, game flow has not been his friend, but the proof is in the pudding. He's average. Indy has allowed the 10th-most fantasy points to RBs this season, but only 3.54 yards per carry. In a contest that has the potential to get lopsided in a hurry (Vegas line: Indy -9), Yeldon is entirely avoidable. That's quite the statement considering the sparse options currently at RB.  Go Lance Dunbar (at NO), Matt Jones (vs. Phi) or Darren Sproles (at Was) instead. 
Fearless Forecast: 13 carries, 48 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 12 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 7.5 fantasy points

Jarvis Landry, Mia, WR (82%, $25)
Matchup: vs. NYJ (In London)
More atoll than island Week 1 against Cleveland, a game in which he conceded seven receptions on nine targets, Darrelle Revis has regained his shutdown form since yielding just one reception on six targets. Overall, he's given up a remarkable 44.2 QB rating to his assignments, the fifth-lowest among CBs with at least 120 snaps. Landry is Miami's version of Julian Edelman. Instead of consuming large meals in one sitting he grazes on the competition, evidenced in his 9.6 yards per catch. He does have the most goal-line targets (4) of any WR in the league, an output which speaks to the preseason claim of his red-zone preeminence. Favorably, he's also snagged eight receptions (on 11.3 targets per game) in each of his first three contests. In other words, the slot man is a PPR mainstay. But similar to what Jordan Matthews experienced last week versus New York (6-49-0), he will sit his tush under a palm tree. Collectively, the Jets have allowed the ninth-fewest fantasy points to wide receivers. Ryan Tannehill will attempt to force feed him, but given the Revis factor I suspect the QB will pick on underachiever Antonio Cromartie with Rishard Matthews or rising rookie DaVante Parker. 
Fearless Forecast: 7 receptions, 61 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 9.6 fantasy points 

Travis Kelce, KC, TE (96%, $24)
Matchup: at Cin
Since his pair of Popeye punches Week 1, Kelce's spinach power has waned. Point the finger at the oversized blood clot, Andy Reid. It's inexplicable a player of Kelce's caliber has only seen 21 total targets. Jason Witten and Jordan Reed have enticed more looks. Simply put, he should be lined up in the crosshairs at least nine times per game. His physicality, long-range speed, polished routes and reliable hands make him one of the game's premier vertical weapons. Through three games he's forced a position-high six missed tackles and gained a handsome 9.1 yards after catch per reception. GET HIM THE DAMN BALL! Despite my roisterous pleas – I'm not at all bitter –  it's entirely predictable Kelce will again under-perform. Cincinnati hasn't faced a murderer's row at TE this season. LaDarius Green and Crockett Gillmore were the toughest opponents they've battled. However, they limited the pair to a combined 87 yards on eight receptions. As a whole, the Bengals have allowed a mere 6.77 pass yards per attempt. Vincent Rey and Rey Maualuga will have their hands full, but in a raucous road environment, I suspect Kelce will register dullish numbers. 
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 57 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 8.2 fantasy points 
