2012-10-24

Cam Newton, Car, QB (60-percent started)
Matchup: at Chi
In Cam's suggestion box one can only hope some scorned fantasy owner submitted a piece of paper with "Pull head out of posterior" scribbled on it. The first half of the regular season has been a calamitous downfall for the prized early-round pick. Mired in a deep sophomore slump, he's regressed in every category imaginable, a dramatic decline that has many questioning his overall attitude, leadership skills and decision-making in high leverage situations. Though his per game average is still straddling the QB top-10, he's largely unreliable. Warren Moon's recent comments suggesting people are "overreacting" to Cam's sliding play obviously isn't representative of the fantasy community. His value, when compared to his draft day price, is drowning in the red. This week likely won't increase owner confidence. Chicago, on pace to best takeaway totals tallied by the legendary '85 team, is on the brink of becoming of the league's greatest defenses ever. Da Bears have yet to allow a multi-TD passer this season or a 16-point signal caller in Yahoo! standard leagues. They've also limited passers to a mere 6.1 yards per attempt. Newton's strong ground presence always makes him a threat to score, no matter the opponent, but until he reconnects with Steve Smith downfield another Sunday filled with unanswerable questions is on tap.
Fearless Forecast: 17-33, 203 passing yards, 1 touchdown, 2 interceptions, 39 rushing yards, 0 rushing touchdowns, 16.1 fantasy points




Stevan Ridley, NE, RB (71-percent started)
Matchup: at StL
After a searing start, the Riddler, who's lost snaps to Brandon Bolden, Danny Woodhead and, most recently, Shane Vereen, has bewildered owners of late. Bill Beelzechick's fast spinning merry-go-round at RB has made it impossible to predict just who will rise to the occasion in a given week. On paper, Ridley may sit atop the depth-chart, but in practice he's not necessarily the primary option, even in goal-line packages. Only The Hoodie knows. Don't expect the always guarded coach to show his hand anytime soon. Despite the ever-changing backfield, Ridley remains on pace for 1,346 rushing yards, which would be the fourth-best mark in franchise history. Still, he's only played on 40.1 percent of the team's snaps the past two weeks, which has led to consecutive dud performances. Sadly, the string of disappointments could stretch another week. No longer 'rancid,' the 'respectable' Rams haven't been mowed down on the ground compared to years past. Over the past five weeks they've held opposing rushers to just 3.3 yards per carry. Most impressively, brand names Alfred Morris, Reggie Bush and then starter Michael Bush, failed to top 90 yards on the ground against them. Under Jeff Fisher's direction, linebackers JoLonn Dunbar and James Laurinaitis have done a marvelous job, combining for 51 stops. Better days are ahead for the Riddler, but St. Louis isn't the pushover it once was.


.
Fearless Forecast: 18 carries, 75 rushing yards, 0 receptions, 0 touchdowns, 7.5 fantasy points



Reggie Bush, Mia, RB (56-percent started)
Matchup: at NYJ
At first glance, Bush's matchup with the Jets is a savory one. Over the majority of the season, the Puddle Jumpers have had their difficulties plugging the gap. C.J. Spiller and Arian Foster, who each eclipsed 150 rushing yards, trampled them. And in their first meeting back in Week 3 on South Beach, Bush, Daniel Thomas and Lamar Miller smoked New York on the ground rolling up 178 yards on 38 carries. Don't expect a repeat performance the second time around. On defense, the Jets have rediscovered their stalwart personality over the past couple weeks. Versus Indy and New England, they surrendered a mere 3.7 yards per carry to RBs. Bush entered the bye on  a sour note. Since his 172-yard, 2-TD dismantling of Oakland in Week 2, he failed to exceed 75 total yards and scored only one time in the four games that followed, mediocre numbers Bush attributed to stacked boxes. Because of New York's rather stingy secondary, a heavy dose of eight-man fronts is likely on the horizon for the running back. Shallow leaguers, don't bank on him.
Fearless Forecast: 17 carries, 68 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 21 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 11.1 fantasy points




Hakeem Nicks, NYG, WR (85-percent started)
Matchup: at Dal
Nicks' 2012, a season that promised to be one of virtual football's best, hasn't quite lived up to the enormous expectations. Knee swelling and complications with his surgically repaired foot have greatly hindered his overall performance. But the former All-Pro boasted late last week he's "feeling better." Though he again underwhelmed last Sunday, he did return to a full practice Wednesday, a strong indication he's nearing full strength. Unfortunately, he may be another week away from contributing at an elite level. The Cowboys present a tall task. Corner Brandon Carr has sloughed in recent games, but rookie Morris Claiborne, who's allowed a mere 11.8 yards per catch, and safeties Danny McCray and Gerald Sensabaugh continue to play above average versus the pass. In the rivals' first meeting, Dallas' secondary did a marvelous job containing Victor Cruz and a weakened Nicks. The tandem combined for only 10 receptions and 96 yards. On the season, only a pair of Brandons, Marshall and Funston LaFell, have reached the 10-point threshold against Big D. Eli Manning has booted the 'Boys repeatedly in the past, but don't anticipate Nicks to match what he accomplished in Dallas last year (8-163-0).
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 68 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 10.5 fantasy points




Vincent Jackson, TB, WR (86-percent started)
Matchup: at Min
V-Jax is the Law of Gravity personified, a classic example of 'what goes up, must come down.' Coming off a history-making effort last week against New Orleans in which he totaled a franchise-record 216 yards, he is seemingly destined for a letdown. In seven games off a 100-plus yard performance since 2010, he scored just two touchdowns and averaged a lowly 2.8 receptions and 41.8 yards per game. No doubt, Jackson has been a Dreamsicle this year. His 14.8 per game average in standard formats is the third-best among wideouts. His terrific blend of size and athleticism have left many defensive coordinators dumbfounded. However, his open-field speed is similar to a peg-legged pirate's, indicative in Malcolm Jenkins' heroic run-down of Jackson Week 7 versus the Saints. This week, it's doubtful Jackson will see as much open space. The Vikings' Cover 2 scheme is designed to take away the big play. And his probable assignment, Antoine Winfield, has played brilliantly this season. The corner, who ranks No. 5 in pass coverage according to Pro Football Focus, has allowed just 10.7 yards per catch. In what will likely be another pitiful display of Thursday Night Football, presumably for both teams, the Buccaneer walks off the plank.
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 47 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 7.7 fantasy points
