2009-12-10

David Garrard(notes), Jac, QB (Noise QB Rank: 9, Start: 10-plus team leagues, 20% started)

Matchup: vs. Mia

Garrard, along with Jurassic-aged Torry Holt(notes), are patriarchs overseeing a group of prepubescent tweens - the NFL's version of "Two and a Half Men." This week, the veteran and his compatriot should bear many fruits in the Sunshine State showdown. For most of the season, the Fins have struggled to ground aerial attacks. Due to their strong interior play, offensive coordinators have focused more on moving the chains vertically. Though Miami played fairly well down the stretch against Tom Brady(notes) a week ago, it has still surrendered generous points to quarterbacks over the past several weeks. Since Week 9, the Fins have allowed 270.6 passing yards per game and six scores, equal to the eighth-most fantasy points yielded. Based on his lopsided splits, the Beer Truck is unquestionably a homebody. In six home games he's averaged 276.2 yards per game and tossed nine touchdowns. He's also chipped in 25.7 rushing yards per contest. Miami's youthful secondary is showing signs of maturation, particularly Vontae Davis(notes), but this is still a vulnerable unit. Garrard is sharpening his canines...

Fearless Forecast: 22-30, 244 passing yards, 2 touchdowns, 0 interceptions, 15 rushing yards, 21 fantasy points

Laurence Maroney(notes), NE, RB (Noise RB Rank: 12, Start: All Leagues, 60% started)

Matchup: vs. Car

Brady may think he's playing alongside a tranquil band of pacifists, but Maroney is one Patriot with musket always loaded. The pugnacious attitude he's recently exhibited is clear proof. Although he's losing touches to Sammy Morris(notes) and has averaged just 62.7 total yards per game since Week 9, Maroney has routinely exercised his bloodhound nose. Over his past seven contests he's sniffed the chalk six times. Bill Belichick is a skyward thinker, but this week the Pats ground game will likely be leaned on heavily. Carolina has played exceptional pass defense for much of the season. The Panthers rank sixth in the league in that category. Conversely, they've been blasted in the trenches. Over the past five weeks, Jon Fox's club has surrendered 4.8 yards per carry, 163.4 total yards per game and six touchdowns to rushers, equal to the sixth-most fantasy points allowed. With New England's division lead on the ropes, Maroney tosses a few haymakers.

Fearless Forecast: 16 carries, 74 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 12 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 14 fantasy points

Quinton Ganther(notes), Wash, RB (Noise RB Rank: 13, Start: All Leagues, 21% started)

Matchup: at Oak

With Clinton Portis(notes) on injured reserve, everyone's favorite sideline Einstein, Jim Zorn, has installed the ever popular three-headed rodent backfield. This week, Ganther assumes the role of Master Splinter. In limited doses, the fourth-year rusher has shown the explosiveness Washington has lacked at running back for much of the season. Over the past two weeks, the former Tennessee bench warmer has averaged an impressive 6.0 yards per carry. This week against the suddenly not-so-rancid Raiders, he should be considered a strong deep-league flex play. Over the past five weeks Oakland has ceded 5.3 yards per carry, 172.3 total yards per game and three scores to rushers, equal to the ninth-most fantasy points allowed. Sherm Lewis appears committed to a balanced approach, but this week, the ground game could be the headline act. Rock Cartwrigtht and to a lesser extent Marcus Mason(notes) will wrest away touches, but the 42 percent-owned back should be snatched up if your alternatives are sketcky.

Fearless Forecast: 15 carries, 68 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 36 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 16 fantasy points

Tim Hightower(notes), Ari, RB (Noise RB Rank: 15, Start: All Leagues, 48% started)

Matchup: at SF

Hightower's fourth-quarter 32-yard scamper last week against the Vikings embodies who he is: a hardnosed, versatile threat who Beanie Wells(notes) owners can't stand. Several weeks ago, many in Fantasyland disagreed with the Noise's perspective the former fifth-round pick would withstand Wells' charge. Lately both backs have produced mediocre returns, but the incumbent is still the more complete back. This week, the well-rounded rusher could generate surprising numbers. The Niners have proven to be inflexible between the tackles at times, allowing just 3.8 yards per carry to rushers. But opponents have had substantial success attacking them in the flat. No defense has surrendered more receptions to runners than San Francisco. On the year, Mike Singletary's crew has yielded 7.2 catches and 54.1 yards per game to backs. Hightower torched them for a fluky 12 receptions and 121 yards Week 1, a total he'll surely fall well short of in the rematch. But in what will surely be a hotly contested game, the Cards' all-around threat should again be highly useful in PPR formats.

Fearless Forecast): 11 carries, 43 rushing yards, 5 receptions, 32 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 11 fantasy points

View gallery
.
Pierre Garcon(notes), Ind, WR (Noise WR Rank: 15, Start: All Leagues, 51% started)
Matchup: vs. Den

Garcon's barometric reading is low. Defenses have aggressively attacked Reggie Wayne(notes), rotating coverage to his side, which has lowered pressure on Pierre. The result: he's snagged 17 passes for 307 yards over the past three weeks, the fourth-best yardage total in the league. The trend likely won't be bucked this week against the Broncos. Champ Bailey(notes) and Brian Dawkins(notes) have played spectacularly this season. The duo has yet to concede a 100-yard receiver and have allowed the fourth-fewest fantasy points to wideouts on the year. However, if safety help continues to shift over to Wayne's side, forcing Garcon into man coverage, Peyton Manning(notes) will surely take advantage. The former Mount Union standout, similar to Robert Meachem(notes), is a generic name that deserves strong start consideration over underperforming stars.

Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 88 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 14 fantasy points

Mike Wallace(notes), Pit, WR (Noise WR Rank: 22, Start: All Leagues, 14% started)

Matchup: at Cle

The likely absence of Hines Ward(notes), who Mike Tomlin described as having "not favorable" odds of playing, propels the rookie into the starting lineup. Wallace was a midseason wire gem totaling three scores while averaging 65.3 yards per game from Weeks 3-9. But since then, he's essentially disappeared, netting just five catches for 82 yards. However, due to his presumed increased role and the attention Santonio Holmes(notes) will attract, the youngster should reemerge from obscurity. The Browns have surrendered the fourth-most 20-yard pass plays this season. Wallace's blazing speed will have Cleveland defenders screaming for Excedrin. Look for him to connect with Ben Roethlisberger(notes) on a couple explosive pass plays.

(Update: For those Al Rokers in attendance who are fearful of the forecasted snow and winds tonight in Cleveland, relax. Per NOAA, winds are expected to range between 23-29 mph with scattered snow showers. That's hardly a blizzard. It's important not to overrate meteorological effects this time every year. Remember what Matt Cassel(notes) accomplished versus Arizona in a driving snowstorm a year ago? Roethlisberger, Mendenhall and Holmes are still safe plays.)

Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 76 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 13 fantasy points

Davone Bess(notes), Mia, WR (Noise WR Rank: 25, Start: All Leagues, 5% started)

Matchup: at Jac

For much of the season, the Miami offense has been a one-trick fish. Ronnie Brown(notes) and Ricky Williams(notes) have spearheaded a largely conservative offense. But with Brown down and out, the Fins have caged the Wildcat, turning to the air more often. As a positive consequence, Bess has blossomed. Fantasy's Tenderoni, who's caught 70.2 percent of passes thrown his direction, has become Chad Henne's(notes) weapon of choice. Over the past five weeks, he's enticed 9.2 targets per game, averaging 5.8 receptions and 68.4 yards. Touchdowns have been and will continue to be a luxury item - he has just two scores in 28 career games - but the smooth wideout is an unsung PPR hero with significant Week 14 upside. Minus Rashean Mathis(notes), the Jags have been skinned vertically. Since Week 9, they've allowed the eighth-most fantasy points to receivers. Over that same stretch, No. 1 targets have averaged 97.6 yards per game and totaled five touchdowns. Because Jacksonville doesn't possess a viable pass rush, Henne should be able to deliver crisp slants and outs to Bess early and often, especially when the receiver garners man coverage. Given his excellent YAC abilities, he should again net terrific WR3 totals in deeper formats.

Fearless Forecast: 7 receptions, 74 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 13 fantasy points

Kevin Boss(notes), NYG, TE (Noise TE Rank: 8, Start: All Leagues, 31% started)

Matchup: vs. Phi

Owners unsatisfied with their current tight end situation should ride The Boss all the way to "Lucky Town." Charitable is the best way to describe the Eagles' tight end defense. No unit has allowed more receptions, yards and fantasy points to oversized targets than Philly. Boss rocked his NFC East rival for three catches, 70 yards and a score back in Week 8. This week, one of Eli Manning's(notes) favorite red zone weapons, should again strum on the six-string. Consider him a top 10 play.

Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 58 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 11 fantasy points
