2009-12-10

Philip Rivers, SD, QB (93%)
Matchup: at Dal
Rivers is a master of efficiency. He hasn't eclipsed 30 attempts in a game since Week 9, but has averaged a ridiculous 266.5 yards per contest and posted a 7:0 TD:INT split. In his past two games he's netted a stupid 13.1 yards per attempt. Focused and grounded, he's hopeful his raging play will flood Cowboys Stadium. But the ‘Boys, including their cheerleaders, have plenty of floaties on hand. Terence Newman and Mike Jenkins have played brilliantly in coverage over the past several weeks. In their past five games, including clashes with pass-heavy Philly and Green Bay, the tandem has allowed just 222.6 passing yards per game and five touchdowns to passers, equal to the ninth-fewest fantasy points yielded. Rivers isn't a benchable commodity in 12-team leagues, but in extreme cases where owners have Brett Favre or Matt Schaub to lean on, he's pine worthy.
Fearless Forecast: 18-27, 236 passing yards, 1 touchdown, 1 interception, 14 fantasy points

Frank Gore, SF, RB (88%)
Matchup: vs. Ari
San Francisco's transition from a conservative, pound-you-into-submission offense to a shotgun spread system has marginalized Gore's value. Essentially, the versatile back has taken on a Hightower-esque role over the past three weeks, netting just 16 touches per game, many of which have come via the air (five rec/g). Gore has been unsurprisingly apathetic about the philosophical tide shift. With Alex Smith flourishing, don't expect Jimmy Raye to suddenly reverse field, especially this week. The Cardinals typically employ several dime and nickel packages on defense, which makes it difficult to apply pressure on the pocket. When Smith has had time, he's thrown several strikes to playmakers Vernon Davis and Michael Crabtree. If Arizona plays tight defense between the tackles, the Niners will likely abandon the run to take advantage of what the defense provides. Ultimately, Gore should produce favorably in PPR-heavy formats, but for standard leaguers, another damning effort is likely on tap.
Fearless Forecast: 13 carries, 43 rushing yards, 5 receptions, 29 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 7 fantasy points

LeSean McCoy, Phi, RB (62%)
Matchup: at NYG
Marty Morninweg is a deceptive code that simply can't be cracked. After featuring McCoy prominently in Weeks 11 and 12, last week the Eagles left the rookie with Mike Vick protesters outside the Georgia Dome. Despite building an insurmountable lead early, the misused back totaled just nine touches for 26 yards. Baffling. This week, his workload should increase, but the quality of opponent is slightly tougher. After a string of disastrous defensive performances, the Giants have rediscovered their mojo, particularly up front. Over the past five weeks, the G-Men have held backs to a mere 2.8 yards per carry and 90.8 total yards per game, equal to the sixth-fewest fantasy points allowed. Due to Morninweg's often schizophrenic gameplans and the difficult matchup, McCoy should be labeled untrustworthy in Round 1.
Fearless Forecast: 12 carries, 37 rushing yards, 4 receptions, 28 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 6 fantasy points

Matt Forte, Chi, RB (77%)
Matchup: vs. GB
Every Sunday is Groundhog Day in Chicago. Bill Murray, one of the Windy City's greatest sports enthusiasts, would agree. The Bears are a sordid mess offensively. Jay Cutler has suddenly morphed into Rex Grossman and Forte has become a Salaam-Enis-Benson conglomerate. Lovie Smith's desire to evaluate Kahlil Bell combined with an unsavory matchup labels the first-round bust a must bench player in non-PPR leagues. As Ray Rice would attest, the Packers' 3-4 has played brilliantly against the run surrendering just 3.5 yards per carry and the third-fewest fantasy points to rushers on the season. The Bears' rickety offensive line doesn't stand a chance. Insert Forte into your lineup only in the flex in 12-team and deeper PPR formats.
Fearless Forecast: 19 carries, 61 rushing yards, 3 reception, 16 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 7 fantasy points

Reggie Wayne, Ind, WR (98%)
Matchup: vs. Den
Wayne, hounded relentlessly by defensive backs, has vanished over the past couple weeks. As Manning noted after last week's extinguishing of red-hot Tennessee, the multi-time All-Pro has suffered from numerous "coverages, double teams to his side." No. 18 will continue to feed him the ball, but he won't force the issue if his top target is blanketed. This week, Wayne could again be wrapped in a Snuggie. As discussed previously, no wideout has reached triple digits against Bailey and Dawkins this season. They've also surrendered just seven scores to receivers this year, the fourth-lowest total in the league. Because of Wayne's scoring potential, he cannot be demoted, but another vanilla performance is certainly possible. Over the past two weeks, he's racked only seven catches for 67 yards.
Fearless Forecast: 6 receptions, 68 receiving yards, 0 touchdown, 6 fantasy points

Steve Smith, NYG, WR (71%)
Matchup: vs. Phi
Tight coverage is Asante Samuel's claim to fame. Though he was manhandled by Roddy White in last week's blowout win in Atlanta, the All-Pro corner should get back on track against Smith. The tacky-handed wideout is undergoing a breakthrough season. His 10.7 points per game average is the 12th-best mark at his position. He has also become a staple in PPR lineups totaling 78 receptions, the fourth-most in the league. But Samuel, who limited Smith to just 68 receiving yards Week 8, is one of the NFL's few shutdown corners. Double-S shouldn't wear street clothes in PPR formats, but in TD-heavy standard leagues, he's an undependable option.
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 62 receiving yards, 0 touchdown, 6 fantasy points

T.J. Houshmandzadeh, Sea, WR (60%)
Matchup: at Hou
On-the-field Houshmandzadeh has had more transgressions than Tiger Woods off. But despite his uncountable number of head-slamming performances, the majority of owners are still idiotically standing by his side. The crown on top of the former consistency king's head is significantly tarnished. He's surpassed the seven-point mark in a game just three times. Matt Hasselbeck still possesses the talents needed to dissect a defense. However, with little time to plant and fire, he's struggled mightily. Houston's pass rush has been inconsistent, but even if the D-line has difficulty penetrating the pocket, the secondary should have much success running press coverage. Even in the deepest of leagues, Housh could tally a big squadoosh.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 47 receiving yards, 0 touchdown, 4 fantasy points

Kellen Winslow, TB, TE (69%)
Matchup: vs. NYJ
Since Josh Freeman has seized the reigns, Winslow has totaled quality numbers operating as a safety valve/hot receiver. Since Week 9, he's averaged 5.4 receptions and 67.6 yards per game equal to the seventh-best output at his position. With Darrelle Revis tied up with Antonio Bryant, most would surmise Winslow should accumulate appreciable totals. If the Jets' blitz is unsuccessful, that very easily could happen. But the season trend doesn't lend much support for a banner day. Overall, the Jets have surrendered the fourth-fewest fantasy points to tight ends. Only one monolithic target, Dante Rosario Week 12, has reached the 60-yard mark against them. The aforementioned Boss, Dustin Keller (at TB) and Jermichael Finley (at Chi) are more reliable options.
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 48 receiving yards, 0 touchdown, 5 fantasy points
