2009-10-01

Brett Favre, Min, QB ()
Matchup: vs. GB
Subjected to the incessant hype machine's constant No. 4 coverage, owners, fed up with the inescapable coverage, will likely sledgehammer their plasma screens come MNF. Though Favre has shined under the primetime lights numerous times in the past and is motivated to drive the dagger deeper into the backs of Green Bay management, he isn't someone to trust, even in a heavy bye week. The Packers have already picked off opposing signal callers seven times this season and tallied 23 passes defended, tops in the NFL. They've also limited quarterbacks to just 216.3 yards per game. Due to his accuracy concerns and Green Bay's recent difficulties containing Adrian Peterson, it will be a hand-off fest for Favre. If he turns to the air, don't be surprised if Charles Woodson and company pick him off multiple times. Ignore the temptation. A second consecutive 300-yard game is a long-shot.
Fearless Forecast: 21-35, 217 passing yards, 1 touchdown, 2 interceptions, 12 fantasy points

Clinton Portis, Was, RB ()
Matchup: vs. TB
The Drag Queen of Mean hasn't flipped his wig yet over Washington's plodding offense. In fact, he confidently boasted this week "it's only a matter of time before I have a 200-yard, 150-yard or 2-3 touchdown game." Obviously suffering from a severe case of dementia, Portis hasn't grasped what the rest of the football world has: the Redskins are a sordid mess. Although the Bucs have surrendered 5.1 yards per carry, 177.7 total yards per game and two scores to plowshares, the ‘Skins' O-line has performed disastrously. Few sizable holes have been opened. Portis has averaged just 3.9 yards per carry and 69.3 total yards per game. And that includes a detestable effort against the Lions (12-42, 1-6, 0 tds). Until the ‘Skins distance themselves from mediocrity, the outspoken rusher will continue to be a fantasy failure.  
Fearless Forecast: 18 carries, 71 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 10 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 8 fantasy points

Ray Rice, Bal, RB ()
Matchup: at NE
The Long Gain Rice, an innocent victim of continuous Willis McGahee goal-line poaches, finally punctured the end zone last week in Cleveland. Currently the 18th-best rusher in fantasy averaging a terrific 5.1 yard per carry and 93.7 total yards per game, Andy Behrens' ultimate mantasy may post nightmarish totals at Foxboro. The Pats have conceded just 3.9 yards per carry, 127.5 total yards per game and two scores to rushers this season. If Vincent Wilfork, who is nursing a sprained left ankle, is unavailable, Rice's chances of further damaging the Noise's already tarnished reputation will increase. The Ravens offensive line has played spectacularly thus far, but Beelzechick, who is determined to draw up a gameplan to limit placing his defenders to make "one-on-one open-space tackles," shouldn't be underestimated. McGahee is a safe play, but Rice, who has to reach the bleachers to maximize his fantasy potential in non-PPR formats, is unquestionably riskier in shallow formats.
Fearless Forecast: 12 carries, 50 rushing yards, 4 receptions, 23 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 7 fantasy points

Marshawn Lynch, Buf, RB ()
Matchup: at Mia
Lynch, who is reportedly still the "same ol' G" coming off a three-game suspension, is ready to strike fear into the hearts of scantily clad female beachgoers the winless Fins. Or is he? Due to Fred Jackson's stellar play in Beast Mode's absence, Dick Jauron plans to "evenly distribute" the workload between the tandem. Expected to be "weaned" in initially, Lynch is unreliable this week because of the uncertainties surrounding his touch total. Miami's superb run defense only complicates matters. The Dolphins have yielded a mere 3.2 yards per carry and 104 total yards per games to backs equal to the 10th-fewest fantasy points allowed. Though he still could post user-friendly totals as a flex option in PPR formats, Lynch shouldn't be inserted into starting lineups except in the deepest of leagues.
Fearless Forecast: 13 carries, 47 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 12 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 5 fantasy points

Marques Colston, NO, WR ()
Matchup: vs. NYJ
Confining some of the game's most electric talent, including Andre Johnson and Randy Moss, Darrelle Revis is quickly becoming the league's most daunting shutdown corner. Through three games, QBs have completed just 48 percent of their passes intended for targets blanketed by the suffocating defender. For the serial fantasy killer, Colston could become victim No. 4. Over the first three weeks, the Saints' top target has averaged seven targets, five receptions, 65 yards and totaled three touchdowns, the most among wideouts in the league. But with a plethora of reliable weapons at his disposal, Colston could be thrust into decoy duties to isolate Revis. It's extremely difficult to demote a top-10 commodity, but don't be surprised if the lengthy target suffers from a deadly case of Gang Green.
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 32 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 3 fantasy points

Santonio Holmes, Pit, WR ()
Matchup: vs. SD
Shutout last week against Cincinnati, Holmes is hoping for a major rebound in Week 4. However, the Chargers' dynamic defending duo, Quentin Jammer and Antonio Cromartie, is one of the league's best. Per Football Outsiders, No. 1 wideouts have performed 39.1 percent below the league average against the tag-team. On the season, only one receiver has eclipsed the 60-yard mark against San Diego. Holmes reportedly was unimpressed with the Chargers secondary calling Jammer and Cromartie "normal corners." Facing Oakland and Miami definitely skews the numbers a bit, but the Bolt's secondary is stifling. Holmes should register at least a couple catches, but a vanilla effort could be on the horizon.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 52 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 5 fantasy points

Nate Burleson, Sea, WR  ()
Matchup: at Ind
The apple of Seneca Wallace's eye a week ago, Burleson recorded his highest receptions total since November 14, 2004 (9). Expected to play second fiddle to TJ Houshmandzadeh entering '09, the veteran has become the center of attention vertically averaging 11 targets per game, which ranks third behind Randy Moss and Steve Smith (Car). Despite the Colts' interior deficiencies, they've defended the pass stiffly this season, limiting receivers to just one TD. They've also conceded only four 20-yard pass plays, the fewest in the league. With Wallace expected to be behind center gain Burleson will entice appreciable looks, but against Indy's swarming Cover 2, he will have little space to operate after the catch. PPR leaguers should still employ his services, but standard followers need to install a contingency plan.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 48 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 4 fantasy points

Kellen Winslow, TB, TE  ()
Matchup: at Wash
Winslow, who will one day pitch "cat" products alongside Reggie Bush, was called out by Bucs head coach Raheem Morris last week for failing to turn upfield on a critical third-and-5. Finishing with three catches for 14 yards, his owners, too, publicly lashed out against him. With unpolished quarterback Josh Johnson behind center, Winslow could again underwhelm. Though the green slinger could establish an instant rapport with his tight end, the matchup isn't conducive for favorable fantasy results. Monolithic targets have snagged just nine passes against the Redskins this season. Zach Miller (at Hou), Heath Miller (vs. SD) and Todd Heap (at NE) are wiser alternatives.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 36 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 3 fantasy points
