2011-11-09

Tom Brady, NE, QB (98%)
Matchup: at NYJ
Dampened probably best describes Brady's mood over the past several weeks. After lighting the world on fire over the first three weeks of the season, he's merely flickered since, averaging a very '06-like 21.5 standard points per game. That's still QB1 worthy in 12-teamers, but far from the ridiculous numbers owners have become accustomed to. So what's ailing Tom Terrific? As Karen Guregian from the Boston Globe detailed earlier this week, several factors are negatively impacting the two-time MVP. For starters, pass protection has broken down, forcing Mr. Bundchen into misreads and hurries. Second, he isn't finding his second/third options as efficiently, likely due to increased man coverage. Third, outside Wes Welker and Rob Gronkowski, the passer has "trust issues" with his targets. Deion Branch's disappearing act and Chad Ochocinco's "stanko" side are partly to blame, but so is Brady. Finally, in many cases he's held onto the ball too long, becoming a human tackling dummy for blitzing defenders. Brady has posted 20 points-plus in three consecutive games against the Jets. But with Darrelle Revis expected to shadow Welker in the slot the entire game, it could be tough sledding for No. 12. Signal callers have completed just 33.3 percent of their attempts to "The Island's" side. Also, keep in mind the Jets have surrendered just one multi-TD passer this season (Tony Romo in Week 1) and the fewest fantasy points to QBs on the year, allowing just five passing touchdowns to 13 interceptions. It may seem Edward Norton in "Fight Club" crazy to lean on an alternative, but fantasy is a game of matchup exploitation.
Fearless Forecast: 20-32, 248 passing yards, 1 touchdown, 2 interceptions, 14.4 fantasy points

Beanie Wells, Ari, RB (64%)
Matchup: at Phi
Is Beanie unhealthy? Was Heavy D the greatest "phat" rapper of all-time (Sidebar: Possibly no person has incorporated hunky dory so beautifully into a song than the "Overweight Lover")? Wells is obviously ailing. Bothered by a knee injury suffered against Pittsburgh on October 23, he has not showed the off-tackle explosion exhibited earlier this season. As Ken Whisenhunt disclosed after last week's OT win against St. Louis, his bell cow, "hasn't been able to run outside for a few weeks now." Without a doubt Philadelphia is a sieve against the run. Overall, the Eagles have yielded 5.4 yards per carry, 118.9 rushing yards per game and eight total touchdowns to RBs this year, equal to the fifth-most fantasy points allowed. Only Washington's generally inept ground attack laid an egg against them. However, with John Skelton under center and given Beanie's current physical state, he's a volatile commodity who will likely underwhelm. The early blowout potential also supports that perspective. Coming off a horrific 10-20-0 effort against the Lambs, Beanie is benchable in shallow formats.
Fearless Forecast: 14 carries, 59 rushing yards, 1 reception, 6 receiving yards, 0 tds, 7.3 fantasy points

Darren Sproles, NO, RB (84%)
Matchup: at Atl
The Pocket Rocket, one of the surprise sensations of the 2011 season, has taken bargain shoppers to infinity and beyond. The man, despite a modest workload, has averaged better than a point per touch this season (1.03). And, for the PPR zealots in attendance, he's caught at least five balls in every game this year. He and Jimmy Graham are the first RB/TE combo to each have 50 catches over the regular season's first nine weeks. Good things do indeed come in small packages. Though never worthy of a demotion in PPR formats, he is a player to consider benching in standard leagues. Atlanta, specifically linebacker Sean Weatherspoon, has defended the run brilliantly for much of the season, especially over the past five weeks. During that span, backs are performing 38.6-percent below the league average against it. Obviously, Sproles isn't a between-the-tackles grinder, but the Falcons have done a fairly good job bottling up versatile RBs. Throw in the expected split with Pierre Thomas, Christopher Ivory and possibly Mark Ingram, who returned to practice Wednesday, and Sproles is a bit riskier than normal. Week 10 could be his fourth sub-10-point effort in his past five.
Fearless Forecast: 5 carries, 23 rushing yards, 5 receptions, 38 receiving yards, 0 tds, 9.9 fantasy points

Mario Manningham, NYG, WR (73%)
Matchup: at SF
Points against data may disagree, but San Francisco's secondary is Bowser on steroids. Corners Carlos Rogers and sporadically used Chris Colliver each rank inside the top-10 in coverage according to Pro Football Focus. Against the pair, receivers are averaging a mere 10.1 yards per catch. Super Mario's Warrior side, which presumably was buried weeks ago, could again make a guest appearance. Top targets have done their damage against the Niners, but No. 2s certainly haven't, averaging just 37.9 yards per game. Over the past two weeks Manningham has hauled in nine receptions for 96 yards and two touchdowns (on 16 targets), but with Victor Cruz's offensive role growing, odds are strong Mario will take a backseat, even if Hakeem Nicks, who didn't practice Wednesday, sits out another week. Under that scenario, Rogers would likely be assigned to Mario, an unwanted matchup. Press the pause button.
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 51 receiving yards, 0 tds, 8.1 fantasy points

Brandon Lloyd, StL, WR (66%)
Matchup: at Cle
If Lloyd registers WR1 or even mid-level WR2 numbers against one of the league's finest cover corners, Joe Haden, The Noise is with Bieber. Lock-down Brown, the third-best CB in the league according to Pro Football Focus, leads the league in passes defended and has conceded just 19 receptions on 41 attempts (46.3 completion percentage). Overall, only Michael Crabtree and A.J. Green have surpassed the 10-point threshold against Cleveland this season. Lloyd, though having a down year compared to 2010's breakout campaign, is a wonderfully skilled player with an attractive workload. Since joining the Rams he's averaged 12.7 targets per game. But, as the Post-Dispatch noted earlier this week, Sam Bradford hasn't found his touch with the deep-ball, overthrowing Lloyd on what would have been a couple of easy TDs last week. In fact, Bradford has completed just 18-of-70 attempts above 20 yards in his young career. Considering the passer's shortcomings downfield and the wideout's date with Haden, he is a mid-level WR3 at best this week in 12-team formats.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 55 receiving yards, 0 tds, 9.3 fantasy points
