2014-12-16

Mark Sanchez, Phi, QB (27%)
Matchup: at Was
Based on his recent string of abominable efforts, if Sanchez were a Christmas present, he would be socks and underwear. His three-pick laugher against the Seahawks two weeks ago was predictable. Leading up to that week, Richard Sherman and friends had thrown assignments in fantasy jail. However, last week's nauseating performance against a lesser Dallas secondary was puzzling. Blame the tackles inside the five. One wide receiver stretch here or there, and his final output would've ranked top-12. Recall, Chris Polk and Darren Sproles finished the job at close range, totaling three touchdowns. This week, the much maligned passer will rekindle his Sanchize form. I'm fairly confident Washington would turn any one of Cleveland's QB failures, past (e.g. Tim Couch, Brady Quinn) or possibly present, into All-Pros. Corners Bashaud Breeland and David Amerson have struggled mightily, giving up big plays against anyone who has crossed their path. On the year, they've allowed a 68.2 completion percentage and 117.2 QB rating. In total, eight passers have gained "Flame" fame against them since Week 3. Nick Foles chucked 325 yards and three scores in the first matchup. In the encore, Sanchez nearly replicates that level of production. 
Fearless Forecast: 29-40, 314 passing yards, 3 passing touchdowns, 1 interception, 5 rushing yards, 27.2 fantasy points 

Tre Mason, StL, RB (56%)
Matchup: vs. NYG
It can't be emphasized enough. Unless your name is DeMarco Murray or Le'Veon Bell, matchups are the ultimate decider between basking in championship glory or penning a sorrowful fantasy story. Ignore Mason's recent slide. Stuffed by Washington and Arizona, two of the league's nastiest run defenses, the rookie accounted for just 99 yards on 33 carries in Weeks 14-15. Despite the superficial numbers, Mason has performed admirably since overtaking primary duties. A powder keg of sorts, he's packed surprising wallop gaining 52.7 percent of his yards after contact. This week against a doughy Giants defense, he should resemble the back that trounced Oakland to the tune of 164 combined yards and three touchdowns three weeks ago. The G-Men aren't as soft as the Raiders, but they are weaklings in their own right.  Since Week 4, eight rushers have scored double-digits against them. Over that time frame, they've given up 4.92 yards per carry and the sixth-most fantasy points to the position. Because of Shaun Hill's limitations, ball control is typically what Jeff Fisher employs. Given the opponent, Mason is sure to burn a few thousand calories. 
Fearless Forecast: 20 carries, 101 rushing yards, 1 reception, 4 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 17.3 fantasy points

Fred Jackson, Buf, RB (48%)
Matchup: at Oak
Through carbon dating, scientists have confirmed Jackson predates Larry King and the Acasta Gneiss, the oldest rock formation on Earth. At 33, the dude is ancient. Though advanced in age, the rusher's game remains granite solid. Breaking the plane has been rare, but he's averaged a usable 89 total yards per game (On 21.7 touches per contest) over the past three weeks. Clearly, he's the crutch the playoff-angling Bills are leaning on. This week matched with a superb opponent, Oakland, he should crack the RB top-15. The Raiders have allowed the second most fantasy points to rushers, yielding at least one touchdown to the position in 12 of 14 games. In total, a dozen RBs have scored at least 11 fantasy points against them. Buffalo ranks third-to-last in run-blocking according to Pro Football Focus, but against a feeble foe, Jackson should fill your cup with cheer.  And don't worry about C.J. Spiller's likely return. Given his extended layoff, it's hard to imagine he'll be grip the pigskin more than 8-10 times. 
Fearless Forecast: 17 carries, 68 rushing yards, 4 receptions, 25 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 18.3 fantasy points

Harry Douglas, Atl, WR (15%)
Matchup: vs. NO
When it was announced Sunday morning Julio Jones would not suit up against Pittsburgh, Douglas was added in droves in the eleventh hour. He didn't disappoint, enticing 14 targets, catching 10 of them for 131 yards. PPR gold. Julio's status for Week 16 remains uncertain. Head coach Mike Smith believes his prized wideout will return to action, citing Monday the receiver's hip had "improved." Still, until he logs a practice or two, there's no guarantee Jones will be on the field for Sunday's critical NFC South slug-fest. With or without No. 11, Douglas offers plenty of upside as a WR3. The last time he faced the Saints, with a healthy Julio in Week 1, he posted a useful 6-69-0 line. Because of Jones', and to a certain extent Roddy White's, presumed physical limitations, Atlanta's best kept "Secret" should emerge from Week 16 with flowery numbers. New Orleans, despite a standout effort against a cooked Bears team, continues to have issues defensively. To bolster a secondary that's struggled mightily this year, Sean Payton recently demoted corner Corey White. However, Keenan Lewis (101.5 QB rating allowed) and White's replacement, Terrence Frederick (105.0), remain beatable. Overall, the Saints have given up the eighth-most fantasy points to WRs. Matchup and personnel concerns suggest Douglas tucks inside the WR top-30.  
Fearless Forecast: 6 receptions, 74 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 17.9 fantasy points 

Donte Moncrief, Ind, WR (13%)
Matchup: at Dal
Last week, several fantasy "experts" (Sidebar: For the record, I despise the term "expert" for fantasy guys. Obviously, we don't know everything. "Fanalyst" is far more appropriate.) waxed romantically about Moncrief's expected Week 15 explosion. His matchup against a routinely toasted Houston defense stoked egos and fueled false confidence. A top-24 output seemed inevitable. Sadly, the greatly admired receiver didn't deliver. The rookie did see action on 52.2 percent of Indy snaps, but attracting a mere three targets and didn't register a single catch. For many, the sprinkles on that donut tasted bitter, to say the least. This week, bank on a rebound. Moncrief poses a matchup problem for Dallas. His lethal mixture of size, speed and physicality should thwart a vulnerable 'Boys pass defense. Targeted 56 times since Week 10, Orlando Scandrick and Brandon Carr have yielded 40 receptions. That's a 71.4 catch rate folks. Worse for Carr, he's conceded 20.6 yards per catch during that stretch. And, no, that's not a typo. Yes, T.Y. Hilton is Andrew Luck's top taco and Reggie Wayne, shockingly, is still kicking, but Moncrief currently wears a post-hype label. 
Fearless Forecast: 3 receptions, 66 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 14.9 fantasy points 

Matt Asiata, Min, RB (9%), SHOCKER SPECIAL
Matchup: at Mia
To put it mildly, when the ball is in Asiata's hands, he resembles an overweight flightless bird. He's sluggish, clunky and generally inept, a true-to-form complementary back. To be fair, he's an excellent receiver and blocker, which explains why he's seen over 50 percent of in-game snaps since Week 12, but averaging a ghastly 3.22 yards per carry on the season he's the antithesis of special. Though painfully unexciting, I sincerely believe he could be a difference-maker in fantasy Super Bowls. His Week 16 opponent, Miami, has unraveled of late defensively, particularly defending the run. Joe Philbin recently blamed the D-line's slump on poor fundamentals -- tackling and gap coverage. Injuries at the linebacker position have also played a part as Koa Misi and Jelanki Jenkins have battled through setbacks. Over the Dolphins' past five contests, they've surrendered 4.88 yards per carry and the 10th-most fantasy points to the RB position. A bloodhound near the goal-line, Asiata could ram his way into the end zone for a score or two. Debate his merits at the FLEX in PPR leagues. 
Fearless Forecast: 13 carries, 39 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 27 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 14.8 fantasy points
