2014-12-17

Ben Roethlisberger, Pit, QB (50%)
Matchup: vs. KC
Familiar bed, smiling faces, untainted pregame meals – home is usually where the heart is for Big Ben. In six games at the Mustard Bottle, he's averaged a gaudy 8.9 yards per attempt, 373.3 passing yards per game and tallied a 20:3 TD:INT split. Bombs away. However, including last week's underwhelming effort in Atlanta (360-0-0), Ben has been wildly erratic in recent weeks. In three of his past five contests, he's failed to register multiple touchdowns. Unfortunately, for those with trophy hopes on the line, his mediocrity could continue. Kansas City is a formidable pass defense. The Chiefs have rarely forced interceptions, but they've yielded only 6.17 yards per attempt, 213.9 passing yards per game and 1.5 passing touchdowns per game, equal to the second-fewest fantasy points allowed to the position. In fact, no signal-caller has surpassed 270 yards against them in a game this season. Jake Locker, Peyton Manning and Russell Wilson are the only passers to rack 20-plus fantasy points vs. K.C. Chris Harris, Darrelle Revis and Richard Sherman, justifiably, have garnered accolades for their handiwork, but corner Sean Smith has been every bit as good. According to Pro Football Focus, he ranks as the fourth-best cover corner in the league. Because the Chiefs limit explosive pass plays and are vulnerable against the run (5.03 yards per carry allowed to RBs), Week 16 sets up for loads of Le'Veon Bell. Todd Haley will remain air aggressive, but the matchup arrows to conservative final numbers for No. 7.  
Fearless Forecast: 24-35, 256 passing yards, 1 passing touchdown, 1 interception, 15.8 fantasy points

LeSean McCoy, Phi, RB (94%)
Matchup: at Was
Engaging in hand-to-hand combat with Liam Neeson. That sounds more appealing than trotting McCoy out against a stingy Redskins run defense on the road. Chip Kelly is threatening to supplant Bill Belichick atop the list of Fantasyland's most evil coaches. Last week's game against the Cowboys clearly exhibited his remarkable treachery. Only once at close range did the running back, a rusher who's previously been effective inside the five, earned a carry. Instead, Chris Polk and Darren Sproles basked in scoring glory, causing McCoy owners to take out their frustrations on innocent holiday decorations from coast-to-coast. Poor Elf on a Shelf. This week, it could be tough sledding for McCoy across the board. The only positive from this year's Redskins is their ability to defend the run. Washington has conceded just 3.69 yards per carry and the third-fewest fantasy points to the position. In the team's last nine games, only three rushers have grossed 10-plus fantasy points against them. McCoy likely won't alter the trend. The last time he faced the divisional foe, he amassed a disgusting 22 yards on 20 carries. Appropriately, the Eagle, who's failed miserably to live up to his top-pick billing, finishes the year on a sour note. 
Fearless Forecast: 18 carries, 59 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 10 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 8.4 fantasy points

Matt Forte, Chi, RB (96%)
Matchup: vs. Det
Among this year's group of Paddington Bears, Forte might be the only player on offense still giving 110 percent. Mentally, the team, much like its lame duck coach, is sipping umbrella drinks on the shores of Cozumel, completely disengaged. Behind an offensive line that surrendered seven sacks to the Saints last Monday, Jay Cutler is simply hoping his massive ego won't be permanently damaged in either of his last two games. Forte, per usual, should grip the rock some 18-20 times, but given the disheveled state of the organization, trepidation is warranted. The opponent doesn't inspire confidence either. In terms of containing running backs, the Lions are definitely kings of the fantasy jungle. Including Forte's "earth-shattering" Turkey Day performance (11-58-0), only three RBs have earned their "Flames" membership against them since Week 6. On the year, rushers are netting an abysmal 3.09 yards per carry vs. Detroit. In a brutal matchup week for marquee backs, Forte is sure to post bearish numbers. (UPDATE: And now Cutler has been benched for Jimmy Clausen according to Adam Schefter. Forte may see an uptick in receptions, but it could get Medusa-ugly in Chicago Sunday.) 
Fearless Forecast: 13 carries, 46 rushing yards, 5 receptions, 44 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 12.7 fantasy points

DeMarco Murray, Dal, RB (93%)
Matchup: vs. Ind
Press Your Luck with Murray and you might just land on a Whammy. The Week 16 picture for the running back is grim. Though the broken hand he suffered, his off-hand, has been surgically repaired, the rusher remains physically limited. Sure he can still plow through defensive lines, but his contributions in the pass game whether as a blocker or receiver are severely handicapped, stunting his overall value. The likelihood defenders will attack his injured hand also raises concern. According to Jerry Jones, the NFL's rushing leader is a full-blown game-time decision. Murray did practice Wednesday, but even if he goes, it's unlikely he'll receive his usual 20-25 touches. Surely, Joseph Randle, and especially Lance Dunbar, will work into the mix, possibly reducing Murray's load to around 14-16 carries. It's complicated. Indy is a favorable opponent. On the season, the Colts have allowed 4.22 yards per carry and the seventh most fantasy points to RBs. At least one plowshare has scored 12 fantasy points against them in PPR leagues three straight weeks. "Start your studs" zealots will scream, if Murray is active, you're playing him. However, given the unique circumstances and subsequent reservations, debating alternatives such as Tre Mason (vs. NYG), Fred Jackson (at Oak) or Jonathan Stewart (vs. Cle) is strongly recommended. Player loyalty doesn't necessarily equate to fantasy championships. Be smart. (If active).
Fearless Forecast: 15 carries, 79 rushing yards, 0 receptions, 0 touchdowns, 7.9 fantasy points 

Emmanuel Sanders, Den, WR (88%)
Matchup: at Cin
What the hell happened to Peyton Manning?! Did aliens abduct his passing skills and replace them with J.P. Losman's? Looking terribly human the past three weeks, the future Hall of Famer has crestfallen supporters. Hampered by flu-like symptoms, a bad thigh and plain old ineptitude, he's averaged a loathsome 195 passing yards per game and tallied a 3:2 TD:INT split in his last three games. Denver's dedication to C.J. Anderson and physical setbacks are mostly responsible for the downturn, but Manning's uncharacteristic string of duds is unnerving. As a result, Sanders' numbers, unsurprisingly, have suffered. A top-three wideout from Weeks 1-12, he's compiled the 44th-best line over the last three weeks, netting a meek 60.7 yards per game. Another bland effort is likely on tap. Cincinnati's strength defensively resides in its secondary. Leon Hall has occasionally struggled over the regular season's second half, but Terrance Newman and Adam Jones have continued to pester assignments. Combined, the pair have allowed under 11 yards per catch and a 76.4 QB rating since Week 9. Only six wide receivers have registered 60 or more yards against the Bengals this year. Because of Cincy's ongoing problems stopping the run, another heavy dose of Anderson is likely. 
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 56 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 8.6 fantasy points
