2015-09-23

Matt Ryan, Atl, QB (82, $42)
Matchup: at Dal
'Tango and Cash.' 'Turner and Hooch.' 'Thelma and Louise ...' The next great buddy movie headed for the big screen might just be 'Quintorris and Ice.' Julio Jones and Ryan have been nearly inseparable to start the season. Only the Ben Roethilsberger-to-Antonio Brown combo has proven deadlier. Through two games, the pair have connected 22 times for 276 yards and two touchdowns. However, that production was generated against two forgiving defenses, Philly and New York. As we've seen thus far, Dallas is an entirely different defensive animal. After losing top cover corner Orlando Scandrick to an ACL/MCL, most predicted doom and gloom in Big D. Sadly, it's the offense, which has already lost Tony Romo and Dez Bryant, that's stepped foot into a post-apocalyptic world. DC Rod Marinelli has done wonders. He's ratcheted up pressure, forced numerous turnovers and halted drives. Collectively, the Cowboys have given up a mere 5.71 pass yards per attempt, one passing touchdown and the second-fewest fantasy points to QBs. Starting corners Morris Claiborne and Brandon Carr have surrendered only 7.5 yards per catch to their assignments. Julio, when healthy, is practically invincible, but if the Dallas secondary clamps down in similar fashion as they did Odell Beckham Jr. Week 1 (8-5-44-0), it will be a very vanilla day for Ryan. 
Fearless Forecast: 25-39, 256 passing yards, 2 passing touchdowns, 2 interceptions, 16.2 fantasy points

DeMarco Murray, Phi, RB (97%, $32)
Matchup: at NYJ
Revenge is a dish best served ... perfectly cooked. Against his former employer last Sunday, Murray succumbed to one backfield drag-down after another. Chip Kelly's surprisingly lack of creativity combined with Philly's shoddy offensive line had the high-priced rusher's pants around his ankles. Including that deplorable performance, 10 of his first 21 rush attempts of the season have gone for 1, zero or negative yards. His 11 total rush yards are equal to Rex Burkhead ... errr ... Andy Dalton. Equally concerning, he's occasionally surrendered playing time to Darren Sproles and Ryan Mathews seeing just 57.4 percent of the Eagles snaps. If not for a pair of touchdowns Week 1, we would be talking about arguably the worst start by a reigning fantasy RB king in the virtual game's history. And don't expect a quick turnaround. The road to respectability gets tougher for Murray. Pizza rat probably couldn't find a crease in New York's ironclad defensive line. The Jets have yielded just 2.88 yards per carry to RBs thus far. Linebacker David Harris has already accounted for eight stops, the third-most at his position. Suffice it to say, Todd Bowels' teachings, which made Arizona one of the most cast-iron run Ds in the league under his direction, have taken hold. Unless the Old Chipster resurrects a half-dozen orcs to throw blocks, it will be another long, frustrating day for DeMarco. And this is assuming the RB plays. He left practice Wednesday with a hamstring injury. Give me Dion Lewis (vs. Jax), Matt Jones (at NYG) and Chris Ivory (vs. Phi) instead. 
Fearless Forecast: 14 carries, 31 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 18 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 6.4 fantasy points

Matt Forte, Chi, RB (99%, $35)
Matchup: at Sea
The forces working against the two-time Pro Bowl selection are high in number: 1) Gravity, which impacts us all. 2) An 0-2 Seattle team returns home angry and hungry, 3) Arena League-level QB Jimmy Clausen will man the ship with Jay Cutler sidelined meaning stacked boxes will be aplenty, 4) The Bears offensive line has at times been a sieve, especially in pass-blocking, 5) Making matters worse, Kam Chancellor is no longer on his self-appointed hiatus. Most believe he'll suit up Sunday. Oh the carnage. Off the blocks, Forte is up to his same old tricks. He's been the workhorse operating as one of the game's ultimate dual threats. Against Green Bay and Arizona he totaled 271 combined yards on 48 touches with a touchdown, a productive line that has him ranked No. 4 among fantasy RBs. Though he'll again carry the mail, the situation, as discussed, is the antithesis of ideal. James Starks ran well against Seattle in absence of Eddie Lacy last Sunday night, but the 'Hawks have yielded only 3.37 yards per carry and the seventh-fewest fantasy points to RBs overall. Bear down indeed. 
Fearless Forecast: 16 carries, 58 rushing yards, 5 receptions, 34 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 11.7 fantasy points

Calvin Johnson, Det, WR (99%, $31)
Matchup: vs. Den
I detest the 'Always Start Your Studs' theory. For the unfamiliar, it's the close-minded belief that any historically productive brand name MUST be started regardless of matchup. As repeatedly stated in this space over the years, no player is immune from down weeks. Not a single one. And who's to say Megatron, coming off an uneventful, injury-limited 2014, is still stud material? After getting pinched by Jason Verrett and the Chargers Week 1, Johnson responded with a sterling 10-83-1 effort (on 17 targets) last week in Minnesota. Xavier Rhodes and friends were body slammed, to say the least. Still, this week's matchup is incredibly daunting. Aqib Talib and Chris Harris, who each rank inside the top-six in pass coverage according to Pro Football Focus, have given up a combined 30.9 QB rating, 57.8 catch percentage and 7.92 yards per catch to their assignments. Safety Darian Stewart has been equally spectacular checking in at No. 1 in coverage at his position. Throw in Matthew Stafford's ill health (ribs/back) and general ineptitude along with Denver's relentless pass rush and it's plain to see why I have Calvin ranked outside my top-24 WRs for Week 3. Fade all day in DFS. 
Fearless Forecast: 6 receptions, 63 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 9.3 fantasy points  

Andre Johnson, Ind, WR (71%, $22)
Matchup: at Ten
The 34-year-old is going the way of your grandpa. Much like the Colts offense as a whole, he's looked slow, stiff and ineffective. Tee times, bridge tournaments and strained peas are in his near future. He did see a fair amount of targets (17) against the Bills and Jets, but he recorded only seven receptions for 51 yards. Whippersnapper Donte Moncrief, who has turned the fantasy football world on its ear, has undoubtedly passed him by. This week, the veteran will place another toe in the grave. Under septuagenarian Dick LeBeau, the Titans defense has tightened up. Per PFF, Perish Cox (No. 10), Coty Sensabaugh (No. 33) and Blidi Wreh-Wilson (No. 38) all rank inside the top-40 in pass coverage. In total, the trio has conceded the ninth-fewest fantasy points to WRs and a lowly 42.8 catch percentage. Granted they did face a Mike Evans-less Buccaneers squad Week 1 and Cleveland in Week 2, but they're certainly better than advertised. Andrew Luck should get his groove back on the road, but count on the withering Johnson to again play a minimized role. Doug Baldwin (vs. Chi), Cecil Shorts (vs. TB) and Michael Crabtree (at Cle) own more Week 3 upside. 
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 50 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 7.0 fantasy points 
