2015-09-23

Nick Foles, StL, QB (4%)
Matchup: vs. Pit
When Foles was shipped from Philadelphia to St. Louis this past offseason, most believed the Eagles got the better end of the deal. However, after Sam Bradford's stomach-pumping performance against the Cowboys that perspective may have changed. Believe it or not, the Rams are off to a solid start, thanks in large part to Napoleon Dynamite's efforts. He hasn't lit the world on fire netting 16.6 fantasy points per game (QB19), but he's not entirely to blame. Rams receivers have dropped 11.9 percent of intended passes, the second-worst mark in the league. Overall, Foles continues to spin one of the better deep balls in the league, is highly effective on play action (137.5 QB rating) and has made sound decisions when pressured (81.0 accuracy percentage in those situations). His fantasy points per dropback (0.51) also ranks top-12, ahead of such position titans as Matt Ryan, Russell Wilson and Drew Brees. This week against a Steelers defense that made Colin Kaepernick look like Steve Young, Foles' stock is sure to rise. Pittsburgh corners William Gay and Antwon Blake have allowed a combined 75.0 catch percentage in the early season. Collectively, the Steelers have surrendered the most fantasy points to the position. For the reasons above and given the explosive nature of Todd Haley's offense – the shootout potential is high – Foles is the perfect remedy for suffering Tony Romo owners. 
Fearless Forecast: 27-43, 298 passing yards, 3 touchdowns, 2 interceptions, 8 rushing yards, 22.7 fantasy points

Danny Woodhead, SD, RB (39%)
Matchup: at Min
Staring at Woodhead's fantastic headshot, he looks like a dude who subsists on granola and weed, a true mountain man. However, the plucky back from North Platte takes pleasure in a different type of high, nickel and dime-ing teams to death. As predicted preseason, he's supplanted hotshot rookie Melvin Gordon near the goal-line, functioning as pass-catching and rushing threat. He hasn't evaded many tacklers (No. 32 in elusive rating) or churned out hard yards (39.7 YAC%), but he's earned considerable red-zone trust, a valuable attribute to own in fantasy. Thus far, he's logged the third-most looks (9) inside the 20 among running backs. Gordon has made strides. His improved patience, vision and explosion were on display Week 2 in Cincinnati. However, his between-the-20s role will remain unchanged this week in Minnesota, a unique opportunity for both backs. The Vikings were gashed Week 1 by Carlos Hyde but righted this ship last week against Detroit surrendering only 84 combined yards to Ameer Abdullah and Co. Still, they've given up 5.5 yards per touch to RBs through two games. On another 13-15 touches, Woodhead should tally a useful RB2 line and drive Ragnar into a deeper depression.  
Fearless Forecast: 9 carries, 39 rushing yards, 5 receptions, 41 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 16.5 fantasy points

Matt Jones, Was, RB (10%)
Matchup: at NYG
The Florida product has much in common with a motorhome. He's big, hard to stop when moving downhill and is a sought after luxury item, off waivers. In a breakout performance against what many expect to be a rather inflexible St. Louis defensive line, Jones completely dominated from start to finish, outplaying incumbent Alfred Morris. Though he saw only 31 snaps, he carried the pill 19 times for 123 yards and two touchdowns. He also chipped in three receptions for 23 yards. At 6-foot-2, 230 pounds, Jones is a load. He's nimble, powerful, shifty and versatile. Overall, his game is patterned similarly to Carlos Hyde's. Though he'll work on short rest, the youngster is a viable RB2 in 12-team leagues against New York. Miniaturized on run defense, the Giants have allowed 137.5 total yards per game to opposing rushers through two games. Working behind a Washington offensive line that's executed beautifully thus far, he should flatten the competition on roughly 13-15 touches. Jones will continue to work in tandem with 'The Butler,' but Jay Gruden's desire to take pressure off Kirk Cousins via ball control only solidifies his growing role. If you were lucky enough to secure his services, turn the key. 
Fearless Forecast: 13 carries, 66 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 14 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 15.5 fantasy points

Allen Robinson, Jax, WR (54%)
Matchup: at NE
Extra crispy. That's what Miami DBs were last week after Robinson dropped them in the deep-fryer for six receptions, 155 yards and two touchdowns. Proving to be more than just a premier red-zone option, the sophomore target burned safety Walt Aikens with a double-move on a 52-yard scoring strike. Though Allen Hurns is also a featured player, it's pretty clear who Blake Bortles favors. Through two weeks Robinson has 18 targets to lead the team, and with Rashad Greene now on IR, that number is sure to multiply. Another weighty workload is on the horizon. Unsurprisingly, Tom Brady has launched ground-to-air missiles to begin the season, blowing up opposing defenses. Jacksonville, which surrendered 359 pass yards, two scores and 8.2 yards per attempt to Ryan Tannehill last Sunday, is his next victim, a plausible outcome that greatly benefits Robinson. If smoke continues to rise from Brady's hand, Bortles will most certainly be thrust into a high-volume situation. More pass attempts means more targets for Robinson. Not to mention he could exploit zone offerings in garbage time. WIth all that in mind and considering how poorly Pats corners Tarrell Brown (No. 90 in pass coverage per PFF) and Malcolm Butler (84.6 catch% allowed) have played, the Penn St. product is sure to cash handsomely. Load up. 
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 89 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 17.4 fantasy points

Cecil Shorts, Hou, WR (2%)
Matchup: vs. TB
Due to small sample sizes, statistical anomalies in fantasy football are omnipresent this time each year. For example, Shorts has more targets (20) than widely perceived top-flight wide receivers A.J. Green (12), Randall Cobb (16) and Brandin Cooks (14). Of course, as the season wears on, that pecking order will most certainly change, but it clearly proves the Texans' affection for the veteran receiver. Though zeroed in, Shorts hasn't done much. He's caught just 10 passes for 91 yards. With defenses focused on containing DeAndre Hopkins, favorable workloads should continue to be the norm for the ex-Jag. If he generates another eight-plus targets, this could be the week he busts out. Tampa Bay stunned the league last week by handling business inside the Superdome. Disemboweled Week 1 versus Marcus Mariota and the Titans, the Bucs plunged daggers into New Orleans holding the Saints to a very uncharacteristic 323 total yards and 4.7 average gain per play. Despite the stiff defensive effort, questions loom long-term, particularly at corner. Jonathan Banks and Alterraun Verner both rank outside the top-50 in pass coverage according to Pro Football Focus. Together the tandem have yielded two touchdowns and a 120.7 QB rating to their assignments. All told, the Bucs have given up 8.59 pass yards per attempt. Ryan Mallett was unsightly at times last week in Carolina (46.6 cmp%, 4.2 ypa), but with the butterflies out of the way, he should take a step forward. Consider Shorts a sneaky WR3 or FLEX option in 12-team and deeper formats. 
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 54 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 13.9 fantasy points

Ty Montgomery, GB, WR (1%), SHOCKER SPECIAL
Matchup: vs. KC
To quote Prince, Montgomery is the "kind you find in a secondhand store." Barely a blip on the fantasy radar, the rookie from Stanford is about to make his mark. Last week against Seattle, he played on 25 snaps (of 71), up from just one in Week 1, was targeted four times and caught four passes for 37 yards. Though his role was limited, he ran polished routes, plucked passes cleanly and gained tough yards after the catch. With Davante Adams dinged (ankle) and defenses attentive to Randall Cobb, his playing time may surge in Week 3. His opponent, the Chiefs, are the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation of football -- they give and give and ... Exposed by allegedly cooked Peyton Manning and 'unstoppable' Brian Hoyer, the Chiefs have allowed a staggering 41 receptions for 516 yards and four TDs to WRs thus far. No surprise, Marcus Peters, Phillip Gaines and Jamell Flemming have conceded receptions on 61.2 percent of balls thrown their way. Lowering the bar, Flemming ranks No. 99 (of 99) in pass coverage per Pro Football Focus. And he's bottom barrel by a wide margin. Suffice it to say, Aaron Rodgers is about to go nuts, especially if Eddie Lacy is out or limited. The kid is a gamble, but spin the roulette wheel and the ball just might land on 88. Among the $10 WR crowd, no one possesses more upside in Week 3 than Montgomery.  
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 49 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 12.9 fantasy points

