2010-09-09

Joe Flacco(notes), Bal, QB, (Noise Rank: 20, 50-percent started)
Matchup: at NYJ
And you should run, run so far away. Against the Revis-italized Jets secondary, the Flacco Seagulls won’t deliver a fantasy hit. This battle has all the trappings of a grind-it-out slug-fest. Despite adding T.J. Houshmandzadeh(notes) to an already stout receiving corps, the third-year signal caller has a daunting task against a Jets defense that surrendered a mere 167.7 passing yards per game and eight touchdowns to passers a season ago, far and away the lowest in the league. Unless Ray Rice(notes) can break a few big gainers in the passing game, bench-worthy totals are inevitable for the hyped QB. Rex Ryan will successfully throw the kitchen sink at Flacco early and often, rattling the young passer’s confidence. Matthew Stafford(notes) (at Chi), Alex Smith (at Sea) and, shockingly, Sam Bradford(notes) (vs. Ari) will likely outperform the popular mid-round loverboy this week.
Fearless Forecast: 15-28, 177 passing yards, 1 touchdown, 2 interceptions, 11 fantasy points
DeAngelo Williams(notes), Car, RB (Noise Rank: 21, 83-percent started)
Matchup: at NYG
The last time the Little Napoleon invaded New York, the roaring Giants crowd was silenced. His spectacular 108-yard, four-TD effort during the most crucial point of the fantasy season in 2008 devastated any unfortunate soul who played against him. Roto Arcade’s own Andy Behrens still weeps uncontrollably just thinking about it. Don’t expect a repeat performance in the rematch. Battered by injuries a year ago, the Giants defensive line underperformed conceding 1.3 touchdowns per game to rushers. Now rejuvenated, they should be stiffer versus the run, especially against a largely one-dimensional Carolina offense. Hole-plugger Jonathan Goff(notes) will be vital to New York’s success in containing D-Will and Jonathan Stewart(notes). Assuming he can sniff out the gaps, the Panthers ground game will be declawed. New year. New stadium. New defense. The G-Men get their revenge.
Fearless Forecast: 16 carries, 61 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 12 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 7 fantasy points
LeSean McCoy(notes), Phi, RB (Noise Rank: 28, 61-percent started)
Matchup: vs. GB
Unyielding best describes the Packers’ efforts in the trenches a season ago. Swallowing running backs whole, the 3-4-based unit allowed just 3.5 yards per carry and four 100 total yard performances to fantasy cornerstones. Because of Kevin Kolb’s(notes) preseason struggles – he failed to find the end-zone and completely just 52.8 percent of his passes – Marty Morninweg may stray away from conventionality by attempting to push the pigskin on the ground. The second-year rusher is a tremendously gifted back with superb all-around skills, but unless Kolb emerges from the cocoon, he will be suffocated. This week, the Pitt product only has value in deeper PPR leagues. Think like a Hatfield. Against the Packers, you want nothing to do with this McCoy.
Fearless Forecast: 13 rushes, 43 rushing yards, 4 receptions, 18 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 6 fantasy points
Shonn Greene(notes), NYJ, RB (Noise Rank: 23, 77-percent started)
Matchup: vs. Bal
For much of 2010, New York’s version of the Greene Monster will be unstoppable. His bruising between-the-tackles nature in a largely conservative system will generate appreciable numbers. However, this week expect the beast to be caged. The interior is clearly the Ravens’ defensive strength. Haloti Ngata(notes) and Kelly Gregg(notes) are certified man-eaters. Ray Lewis(notes), Jameel McCLain(notes) and Terrell Suggs(notes) also have a taste for RB flesh. Though the aging Ravens may not be as dominate as they were just a couple seasons ago – Cedric Benson(notes) snapped Baltimore’s consecutive streak without allowing a 100-yard rusher in Week 5 last year – this is still an outstanding, inflexible unit which should win most wars in the trenches. Greene’s straight-line style won’t be intimidating. Sage owners with suitable backups should turn to the bench. Tim Hightower(notes) (at StL), Jerome Harrison(notes) (at TB), Carnell Williams(notes) (vs. Cle) and Arian Foster(notes) (vs. Ind) are finer options.
Fearless Forecast: 22 carries, 77 rushing yards, 0 touchdowns, 7 fantasy points
Hines Ward(notes), Pit, WR (Noise Rank: 36, 76-percent started)
Matchup: vs. Atl
Even at his advanced age Ward is still one of the toughest and slipperiest underneath targets in the league. The man has made a living routinely exploiting soft spots in zone coverage. However, with Dennis Dixon(notes) behind center, the 12-year veteran is a precarious option in Week 1. Yes, the Falcons were rather generous to fantasy receivers a season ago ranking 31st in the league against No. 1 wideouts (74.0 ypg), but Dixon’s wretched performance in the preseason doesn’t bode well for Ward. Look for the Falcons to throw a variety of coverages at Dixon to cause chaos and stymie his scrambling ability. The decorated wideout could notch profitable totals in PPR formats working as a short-field greaseman, but expect mediocre results in standard leagues.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 58 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 5 fantasy points
Wes Welker(notes), NE, WR (Noise Rank: 37, 83-percent started)
Matchup: vs. Cin
The PPR thoroughbred's quick recovery from a catastrophic knee injury is nothing short of miraculous. Seriously, he must be part-cyborg. However, as the receiver admitted last week, he’s still "a long ways off" from operating at full strength. Welker is confident planting and cutting, but the explosiveness hasn’t returned. Over the first few weeks of the regular season, he will have to be clever and crafty to gain separation from defenders. Because of his extraordinary route-running talents, he will be able to generate some space but his yards after contact will likely suffer. Without a dependable running game, car stuntman Tom Brady(notes) may easily chuck 40-plus balls versus Cincy. But keep in mind WR2s performed 22.3 percent below the league average against the Bengals last season. They’re a formidable defensive bunch. Play it safe except in deep PPR formats. Under-drafted targets Mohamed Massaquoi(notes) (at TB), Devin Hester(notes) (vs. Det), Mike Williams (vs. SF) and Jabar Gaffney(notes) (at Jac) are wiser choices.
Fearless Forecast: 6 receptions, 49 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 4 fantasy points
