2009-10-15


Matt Hasselbeck(notes), Sea, QB (Noise QB Rank: 6, Start: All Leagues)

Matchup: vs. Ari

Finally healthy, Seattle's Bald Eagle regained his swagger and accurate touch last week against the Jags, tossing 241 yards and four touchdowns. "Comfortable operating in a hurry-up type of pace," according to TJ Houshmandzadeh(notes), the veteran QB should have marked success pushing the pedal to the metal against a very vulnerable Arizona secondary. The Cards have allowed a ridiculous 310.3 passing yards and 2.3 air strikes per game equal to the third-most fantasy points yielded. Hassy has also compiled seven touchdowns in two home games. The signal caller, in the midst of an incredibly friendly matchup slate (Next seven: Ari, Bye, at Dal, Det, at Ari, at Min, at StL), could be one of fantasy's most valuable QBs over the next several weeks. Sage owners should pitch an offer for his services now before the sticker price soars.

Fearless Forecast: 21-34, 262 passing yards, 3 touchdowns, 0 interceptions, 11 rushing yards, 26 fantasy points

Pierre Thomas(notes), NO, RB (Noise RB Rank: 11, Start: All Leagues)

Matchup: vs. NYG

It's common knowledge the Noise is perpetually hammered on PT Bruiser juice. But speaking from an objective point of view, he's must start material in Week 7. The news of Mike Bell's(notes) return has once again caused PT supporters to feel uneasy. Thomas' perplexing ankle/hamstring issues also complicates matters. But there is no reason to panic. Though Bell played marvelously in Thomas' absence earlier this season, the Bruiser has found the end-zone three times averaging a stupid 6.4 yards per carry and 87.3 total yards per game in three contests. To keep his backfield fresh, Saints coach Sean Payton will install a rotation of sorts, likely riding, as Jeff Duncan of the Times-Picayune speculates, the "hot hand." Unless his ankle soreness intensifies, Thomas should be trusted this week against a deceptively solid Giants frontline. The G-Men have surrendered the fifth-fewest fantasy points to rushers, but also 4.5 yards per carry. Because of Drew Brees'(notes) ability to thin out the box, the PT Bruiser, assuming he's healthy, should roll.

Fearless Forecast: 15 carries, 77 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 21 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 15 fantasy points

Leon Washington(notes), NYJ, RB (Noise RB Rank: 19, Start: All Leagues)

Matchup: vs. Buf

New York's little Leprechaun has yet to find gold at the end of the rainbow. Rex Ryan and Brian Schottenheimer have repeatedly said Washington will become a centerpiece of the Jets' gameplan, but seemingly every week they are "disappointed" by the back's lack of involvement. On the season, he's averaged just 62 total yards per contest and has yet to splash pay-dirt. However, this week, the versatile rusher should inflict significant damage on approximately 15-20 touches. Decimated by injuries, the Bills defense is a very vulnerable unit in all facets, especially on the ground. Buffalo has yielded 4.6 yards per carry, 171.8 total yards per game and eight touchdowns to RBs equal to the fourth-most fantasy points conceded. If there was ever a week to march with Washington, Week 6 is it.

Fearless Forecast: 12 carries, 54 rushing yards, 4 receptions, 35 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 14 fantasy points

Darren Sproles(notes), SD, RB (Noise RB Rank: 20, Start: All Leagues)

Matchup: vs. Den

The animated mini-keg, who was voted the third most-underrated player in the NFL by his peers last week, has been grossly underutilized since LT's return. Used sparingly against Pittsburgh just before the Bolts' bye, he touched the rock just one time for a 16-yard reception. Though Tomlinson will tote the lion's share of carries this week against the unblemished Broncos, Sproles' role should expand. Interiorly the Broncos are an inflexible unit, yielding just 3.3 yards per carry to rushers. But, as Tashard Choice(notes), Cedric Benson(notes) and Sammy Morris(notes) have showed, they are exploitable in space, especially on the peripheries. Denver has allowed 6.4 receptions and 50.2 receiving yards per game to backs this season, the fifth-most in the NFL. To take advantage of what the defense gives him, Philip Rivers(notes) will likely target Sproles on several swings and screens. In a more involved role, the Pocket Rocket should accumulate appreciable totals in PPR-intensive formats.

Fearless Forecast: 8 carries, 29 rushing yards, 5 receptions, 38 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 11 fantasy points


.
Bernard Berrian(notes), Min, WR (Noise WR Rank: 20, Start: All Leagues)
Matchup: vs. Bal

Against an underachieving Baltimore secondary, the BB Gun is cocked, locked and loaded. The Larry King of quarterbacks, Brett Favre(notes), who Berrian gifted a rocking chair to for his 40th birthday, admitted earlier this week he's still learning each of his receivers' habits and tendencies. Targeting Berrian 6.6 times per contest, the elderly gunslinger appears comfortable with his primary deep threat despite the learning curve. This week, the two should connect on at least one long bomb. The Ravens have struggled in man-on-man coverage this season, especially downfield. Ed Reed(notes) and his cohorts have surrendered an uncharacteristic seventeen 20-yard pass plays, the second-most in the league. They've also conceded the 10th most fantasy points to wideouts. Like Berrian, Percy Harvin(notes) and Sidney Rice(notes) could also easily achieve flame status, but the BB Gun should have the finest fantasy day of the trio.

Fearless Forecast: 4receptions, 64 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 12 fantasy points

Donnie Avery(notes), StL, WR (Noise WR Rank: 22, Start: All Leagues)

Matchup: at Jac

Avery's Tootsie Roll after scoring a meaningless touchdown last week against Minnesota is the everyday equivalent of breaking out the running man at funerals, high-powered business meetings and encounters with law enforcement. In other words, it was totally inappropriate, though somewhat understandable. Really, how many times will Avery, or any Ram for that matter, find the end zone? Despite St. Louis' general offensive ineptitude, it could have some success vertically this week against Jacksonville. The Jags have allowed the most yards, second-most scores and second-most fantasy points to receivers this season. With Marc Bulger(notes) back behind center and given the Rams' inefficiencies defensively, Avery should again attract ample targets, labeling him an upside WR3 in deeper formats. Another 80-plus yard effort could be on the horizon.

Fearless Forecast: 4receptions, 58 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 11 fantasy points

Nate Washington(notes), Ten, WR (Noise WR Rank: 23, Start: All Leagues)

Matchup: at NE

The Jerry Garcia of NFL receivers, Washington, who will be selling autographed tie-dye shirts and incense on a Foxboro street corner after Sunday's game, remarked this week despite the Titans winless record, his teammates are, positively and negatively, motivated by "love." Pass the bong, dude. Due to Tennessee's stiffness in the trenches and inadequacies in downfield coverage, quarterbacks have feasted vertically on the Titans which has forced Jeff Fisher to abandon the run, a common occurrence that has benefited Washington. Ranked No. 39 in points per games at his position, the former Steeler has averaged 7.4 targets per game and totaled three touchdowns. Just three receivers have surpassed 80-yards against the Pats, but in a game in which Tennessee could once again be buried early, the Titans' top target should be thrust into an opportunity to rack numerous catches.

Fearless Forecast: 3 receptions, 39 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 9 fantasy points

Todd Heap(notes), Bal, TE (Noise TE Rank: 5, Start: All Leagues)

Matchup: at Min

Heap, no longer the butt of fantasy jokes, has become one of Joe Flacco's(notes) most trusted targets, averaging a robust 6.2 looks per game. Though he hasn't crossed the chalk since Week 2 and has failed to eclipse the 50-yard mark in four consecutive games, the Ravens skyscraper should flirt with the tight end top-five this week. In terms of TE defense, Minnesota is the new San Diego. Susceptible across the middle, the Vikings have yielded 7.6 receptions, 93.6 yards and 0.80 touchdowns per game to monolithic targets equal to the most fantasy points allowed. Even the Rams were successful in TE conversions last week totaling eight catches for 90 yards. Activate Heap in all formats.

Fearless Forecast: 6 receptions, 74 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 13 fantasy points

