2014-09-17

Tony Romo, Dal, QB (39%)
Matchup: at StL
Romo has done very little to rectify his blemished reputation. He followed up a Week 1 train-wreck against San Fran with an equally nauseating effort in Tennessee (176-1-0). He and Dez Bryant were virtually unstoppable at times, but the Cowboys offense was carried by thoroughbred, DeMarco Murray, to the finish line. As a result, the QB bottomed out at No. 29 among Week 2 signal callers, one spot behind the "all mighty" Matt Cassel. Through two games, Romo has only attempted six passes beyond 20 yards, completing one, choosing instead to attack defenses in the short-to-intermediate field. He's also been terrible on play-action posting a QB rating of just 38.0 in those situations. That lack of production downfield has justifiably prompted many to question how healthy his back really is. But this is the week Romo regains his QB1 mojo. Yes, the Rams have yet to allow a 175-yard passer, but they faced Cassel and Josh McCown in consecutive weeks. Overall, they've surrendered 7.5 yards per attempt to passers and starting DBs E.J. Gaines and Janoris Jenkins have yielded a catch rate of 65.0 percent to their assignments. Don't be fooled by the superficial numbers. Since 2007, Romo has finished inside the QB top-10 in per game average every year. Though doubt is creeping in, this is the matchup that reassures owners he can still play at a starter-worthy level. 
Fearless Forecast: 24-34, 261 passing yards, 2 passing touchdowns, 0 interceptions, 0 rushing yards, 21.1 fantasy points

Joique Bell, Det, RB (46%)
Matchup: vs. GB
So far it's been the Year of the Bell. Pittsburgh's Le'Veon Bell has stiff-armed critics and the competition logging a top-three fantasy line over the first two weeks. His underpublicized compatriot, Joique, has also kept heads ringin', checking in at No. 16 in PPR settings. The versatile and powerful Lion has out-snapped (77-to-62), out-touched (16 tchs per game to 12)  and outproduced tag-team partner Reggie Bush. He's managed a mere 3.48 rushing yards per carry, but his contributions in the check-down game have padded the bottom line (7-66-0). On Sunday, Detroit hosts division rival Green Bay at Ford Field. To say the Packers' D is nonthreatening would be a gross understatement. When Geno Smith throws and runs his way to top-10 numbers, that's an indictment. Green Bay's added depth in its defensive backfield has helped, but its mushy makeup in the trenches remains an eyesore. The Pack has surrendered 4.91 yards per touch and the fifth-most fantasy points to RBs through two weeks. On the fast track, Bell tolls for thee.
Fearless Forecast: 14 carries, 59 rushing yards, 4 receptions, 23 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 17.2 fantasy points

Danny Woodhead, SD, RB (11%)
Matchup: at Buf
He's no "Butter Squirrel," but Woodhead, similar to Philly's Darren Sproles, is a slippery weapon who's incredibly hard to contain in the screen game. A non-factor Week 1, he bounced back with a commendable effort last Sunday against the champs, totaling 60 yards on 12 touches (four receptions). Overall, he's seen 45.1 percent of the team's snaps. With Ryan Mathews sidelined the next 4-5 weeks, his role, along with Donald Brown's, elevates, possibly netting the RB some 12-15 touches per game. Down defensive backbone Kiko Alonso, the Bills have defended the run somewhat poorly. They've yet to yield a ground touchdown, but their 4.77 yards per carry allowed to RBs hardly classifies them as "stiff." Now without the services of Keith Rivers (groin), they're even more susceptible. Linebackers Preston Brown, Nigel Bradham and Brandon Spikes have surrendered 18 receptions on 20 targets combined, a chuckle-worthy stat that shows Philip Rivers and Woodhead could nickel and dime the Bills to death. Brown is San Diego's power play, but his complement will be utilized heavily in the pass game, increasing his FLEX appeal in PPR formats. Interesting aside, Woodhead recorded the same number of red-zone touches (three) as Mathews in the Chargers' first two contests. There's measurable TD potential here. 
Fearless Forecast: 9 carries, 38 yards, 5 receptions, 52 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 18.7 fantasy points

Kelvin Benjamin, Car, WR (38%)
Matchup: vs. Pit
It's all about the Benjamin, baby. The rookie, who crashed back down to earth last week after a fervent Week 1, is sure to stoke the fantasy fire yet again. Though he underperformed in a favorable matchup vs. the Lions in Week 2, he was still targeted eight times, the highest amount among Panthers wide receivers. At a rangy 6-foot-5, the Florida State product will continue to be Cam Newton's weapon of choice downfield. His height, push off press coverage and long-range wheels are TE-like attributes. In other words, he's a matchup nightmare for undersized defenders. Pittsburgh, as expected, has been rather exploitable defensively, particularly in the vertical game. Underneath dynamos Andrew Hawkins and Steve Smith housed them in consecutive weeks. Benjamin makes his hay typically on big plays, but, evident in his 1.94 yards per route run, he's also a midrange force. Through two games, he's grabbed four passes for 62 yards on 10-19-yard completions across the middle. Whether on the edge or between the hashmarks, the wideout should show well vs. Ike Taylor and Cortez Allen, a pair of DBs that rank outside the top-50 in pass coverage according to Pro Football Focus. In his prime-time debut, Benjamin shines. 
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 72 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 16.9 fantasy points

Brian Quick, StL, WR (8%)
Matchup: vs. Dal
The Lou, for the most part, has been a barren wasteland for fantasy purposes. That putrid smell emanating from the city isn't just the Mississippi. Zac Stacy hasn't exactly delivered on his RB2 promise. Meanwhile worthless Kenny Britt, talked up by several fanalysts as a preseason sleeper, remains in a non-factor. Because of the club's generally porous output, many have overlooked Quick. For the third-year wideout, the light in the attic has finally turned on. His sharpened routes and gained confidence have unlocked his WR3 potential. Undoubtedly the team's most reliable vertical asset, he's attracted 18 targets catching 14 balls for 173 yards through two games. With Tavon Austin cooked for the next couple weeks, he could average double-digit looks over the near-term, especially this week vs. the Cowpokes. Starting CBs Morris Claiborne and Brandon Carr rank No. 83 and No. 90 respectively in pass coverage per PFF. All told the un-dynamic duo has surrendered a 96.5 QB rating. Futile. Based on the matchup, Quick should finish well inside the WR top-36 in PPR, especially given the garbage-time potential. 
Fearless Forecast: 8 receptions, 89 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 20.9 fantasy points 

Davante Adams, GB, WR (1%), SHOCKER SPECIAL
Matchup: at Det
As Andy Behrens discussed earlier this week, Adams is a still widely available player who shouldn't be. In what may be a season full of impactful rookie wideouts (Benjamin, Brandin Cooks, Sammy Watkins, Mike Evans, Allen Hurns), the Fresno State alum could also make serious noise. Jarrett Boykin's impersonation of Victor Cruz last week against the Jets did him no favors. His brutal drop in the red zone has him firmly in Mike McCarthy's doghouse, a banishment that swings open the door of opportunity for Adams. After Boykins was benched, the youngster stood out, catching five passes for 50 yards (on seven targets), nearly missing a touchdown in the third quarter. He saw just 51.3 percent of the snaps Week 2, but after splashing onto the scene in the second half, his role, in an offense that features many three-WR sets, is sure to expand. Detroit's secondary has thinned noticeably since the season started. DBs Bill Bentley and Nevin Lawson are permanently shelved and James Ihedigbo, who's battled knee problems, has yet to see the field. In a clash that promises a buffet of fantasy goodness (Vegas over/under 52), Adams, who possesses the size (6-2, 212), leaping ability and separation skills to be highly effective, is a prime breakout candidate. 
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 64 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 16.1 fantasy points
