2010-11-17

Jon Kitna(notes), Dal, QB (Noise Week 11 QB Rank: 7, eight-percent started)
Matchup: vs. Det
Kitna’s appearance may be more reminiscent of a strip club bouncer than a trusty NFL quarterback, but, this week, the journeyman passer will smell like fruit-filled rainbows. After he led a sickly offense to a shocking upset win last week in New York, overnight the Cowboys were rehabilitated. Rediscovering Miles Austin(notes) and Felix Jones(notes) in the passing game, Kitna threw for 327 yards and three touchdowns, the finest single game performance by a signal caller against the NFC East pacesetter this year. More importantly, he continued to forge an unbreakable bond with student Dez Bryant(notes), a relationship the veteran recently compared to sustaining matrimonial bliss. Instead of foot massages and roses, targets have pleased the rookie. Since Kitna took over first-team snaps for Tony Romo(notes) in Week 8, the pair have connected for 19 receptions, 274 yards (91.3/game) and two touchdowns. Jim Schwartz’s defense, particularly the secondary, has shown steady improvement. Last week in Buffalo, corners Chris Houston(notes) and Alphonso Smith(notes) limited waiver sensation Ryan Fitzpatrick(notes) to his lowest single game output this year (11.4 fpts). Still, as Mark Sanchez(notes) proved in Week 9 (323-1-1), this is an undersized secondary which is at a noticeable disadvantage size-wise against Dallas' receiving trees. Cowboy up.
Fearless Forecast: 25-38, 293 passing yards, 3 touchdowns, 1 interception, 25 fantasy points
BenJarvus Green-Ellis(notes), NE, RB (Noise Week 11 RB Rank: 13, 31-percent started)
Matchup: vs. Ind
Is your season hanging in the balance? Are you the victim of running back inconsistency? Is your soon-to-be ex-wife trying to steal the shirt of your back? For assistance with these problems and any other legal needs, call the law offices of BenJarvus Green-Ellis. Breaking away from New England’s two-man committee last week, the third-year back accomplished a feat no rusher had previously this season – he broke the 60-yard mark on the ground against the vaunted Steelers defense. He also chipped in 36 receiving yards. This week against an undersized, outmatched Colts defensive front similar numbers could be achieved. Indianapolis has surrendered 4.9 yards per carry, 147.9 total yards per game and nine touchdowns to RBs this season equal to the 10th-most fantasy points. Only Cedric Benson(notes) in Week 10 failed to eclipse the 80-yard mark against them. Whether Fred Taylor(notes) suits up or not is irrelevant, BJE is clearly the Patriots’ best ground option. Due to the suffocating nature of the Cover 2, Bill Belichick will likely install a conservative game-plan in order to attack Indy’s greatest weakness, defending the edge. On runs off-tackle, the Colts have given up a ridiculous 5.8 yards per carry. Fire the musket.
Fearless Forecast: 19 carries, 91 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 12 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 16 fantasy points
Thomas Jones(notes), KC, RB (Noise Week 11 RB Rank: 17, 53-percent started)
Matchup: vs. Ari
Incognito over the past two weeks, Jones has finally taken a backseat to the younger, more explosive Jamaal Charles(notes). At least, temporarily. A victim of a first-quarter drubbing by Denver and a dramatically improved Oakland rush D, he’s totaled just 54 yards during that stretch. Don’t expect the funk to prolong. Arizona is abhorrent defensively, particularly in gap execution. Whale-wide holes have become commonplace. On the season, the Cardinals have yielded 4.6 yards per carry, 168.3 total yards per game and 12 touchdowns to rushers equal to the most fantasy points. Suffice it to say, they won’t be able to contain a run-first offense. The Noise has better odds of out-sprinting the JC of KC in the 100-meter dash. In what could become a lopsided affair, Jones will be worked tirelessly. His third 100-yard performance of the season is definitely attainable, especially if the Cards are again minus defensive catalyst Darnell Dockett(notes). Bang the tribal drum.
Fearless Forecast: 19 carries, 95 rushing yards, 1 receptions, 4 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 15 fantasy points
Reggie Bush(notes), NO, RB (Noise Week 11 RB Rank: 22, 16-percent started)
Matchup: vs. Sea
It’s been a painful year for the well-publicized rusher. Losing a Heisman, Kardashian and seven games to injury would be difficult for any man to overcome. However, Reggie is the resilient type capable of shrugging off the harshest adversity. This week, against a hapless Seattle defense, he’ll prove his adaptability. In a local radio interview this week, Drew Brees(notes) has sounded like a child who recently rediscovered a lost toy. The quarterback is anxious to get Bush back on the field, and in space. Ladell Betts(notes), Christopher Ivory(notes) and Julius Jones(notes) will still be involved in the backfield rotation, but the shifty rusher will unquestionably carve out a large role in the passing game. The ‘Hawks have yielded an NFL-worst 12.4 yards per catch to RBs this season. Screens and dump-offs to Bush could turn into long gains. The versatile rusher, who feels “more than 100-percent,” won’t be eased back. Trust the skill set. Trust the matchup.
Fearless Forecast: 5 carries, 19 rushing yards, 6 receptions, 67 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 14 fantasy points
Santonio Holmes(notes), NYJ, WR (Noise Week 11 WR Rank: 13, 48-percent started) 
Matchup: vs. Hou
Timid owners who’ve exercised caution with Holmes need to say “What up?” After a sluggish start, the former Super Bowl hero has donned a cape over the past two weeks catching 10 passes for 190 yards and a game-winning touchdown against the Browns. Pleased with the coaching staff’s communicative philosophy, the fleet-footed receiver will likely call his own number several times this week. Noted repeatedly in this space, Texans rookie Kareem Jackson(notes) is the weakest link in the chain. No CB2 has allowed more yards. Jackson has surrendered 83 yards per game to his assignments, including a hefty sum to the Jags’ Mike Thomas(notes) last week. Holmes’ terrific route-running, elite speed and elusiveness poses a significant problem. Considering Houston is allowing a sizable 9.1 yards per play to wide receivers, the Jets target is bound to take off. Fly the fantasy friendly skies.
Fearless Forecast: 6 receptions, 92 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 15 fantasy points
Nate Washington(notes), Ten, WR (Noise Week 11 WR Rank: 19, 20-percent started)
Matchup: vs. Was
Against a dreadful secondary, PETA favorite DeSean Jackson(notes) remarked the 'Skins were victimized by a group of “pit-bulls” on Monday night. Expect Washington to also bark loudly. As anticipated, the Randy Moss(notes) Effect immediately aided the WR2. Though Kerry Collins(notes) and Vince Young(notes) failed to deliver passes crisply to the wideout, he was targeted a season-high nine times, hauling in three passes for 26 yards and a touchdown. As Michael Vick(notes) exposed in an historic performance Monday, the ‘Skins are one step below atrocious in pass defense. Constantly outmaneuvered and outsmarted, DeAngelo Hall(notes) and cohorts have conceded 32 pass plays of 20-plus yards, the seventh-most in the league. To take advantage of Washington’s defensive inadequacies, look for The Dinger to draw up several explosive pass plays to loosen up back end coverage. Due to the attention Moss will draw, Washington should again reap plenty of statistical riches. Do you think the outspoken receiver will soon retract his brainy “I don’t think we need him (Moss)” statement?
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 66 receiving yards, 1 touchdowns, 12 fantasy points
SHOCKER SPECIAL
Kevin Boss(notes), NYG, TE (Noise Week 11 TE Rank: 6, five-percent started)
Matchup: at Phi
Owners looking for a one-way ticket to “Lucky Town” should cue up the Boss and press play. Minus Steve Smith for the next several weeks, the ogre from Oregon will undertake a substantial role in the passing game, functioning as Eli Manning’s(notes) primary greaseman. Last week’s, five-catch, 85-yard, 1-TD performance against the Cowboys was only a preview. The Eagles’ generosity toward tight ends is well-documented. Not since 2007 have they ranked outside the top 10 in points allowed to the position. Currently they check in at No. 5, yielding five receptions and 61.3 receptions per game. Monolithic targets have also splashed six against them five times since Week 4. Given the G-man’s enormous 6-foot-6 frame he is a matchup concern for Stewart Bradley(notes) and company. Owners frustrated with inconsistency at tight end should consult the Boss. Assuming his bruised tailbone isn’t inhibitive, a top-10 effort in Week 11 appears very likely.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 59 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 11 fantasy points
Other potential Week 11 Flames: Mark Sanchez (vs. Hou), Shaun Hill(notes) (at Dal), Matt Cassel(notes) (vs. Ari), Carson Palmer(notes) (vs. Buf), Felix Jones (vs. Det), Danny Woodhead(notes) (vs. Ind), Keiland Williams(notes) (at Ten), Malcom Floyd(notes) (vs. Den), Mike Thomas (vs. Cle), Nate Burleson(notes) (at Dal), Seyi Ajirotutu(notes) (vs. Den)
