2013-10-10

Matthew Stafford, Det, QB (73-percent started)
Matchup: at Cle
Remove Megatron from the equation would make the Decepticons extremely vulnerable. Remove the football version of the same name from the Lions and you're left with Kris Durham, Ryan Broyles and Pat Edwards at WR. Watch out Autobots. Without Calvin Johnson last week, the Detroit offense was absolutely abysmal. Reggie Bush and Joique Bell, who normally operate freely in the short-field, were swarmed under repeatedly by Green Bay's suffocating defense. No surprise, Stafford's numbers suffered. Saved by a garbage-time TD to Durham, he finished with a mediocre 262 yards and a touchdown. With or without Calvin, who is a full-blown game-time decision per Adam Schefter, an equally marginal outcome is likely for the signal caller in Week 6. The surging Browns have thrived largely due to their defense, particularly in the secondary. Blanket corner Joe Haden has held assignments to just 9.4 yards per catch, surrendering a catch percentage of 47.4. Mike Wallace, Torrey Smith and A.J. Green failed to reach 86 yards against him. Couple that with Cleveland's stout run D, suitable pass rush and hometown backing, and bland numbers are in the offing for Stafford. Keep in mind the Dogs have yet to allow a multi-TD passer this season.

Fearless Forecast: 25-41, 266 passing yards, 1 passing touchdown, 1 interception, 2 rushing yards, 16.5 fantasy points


Frank Gore, SF, RB (90-percent)
Matchup: vs. Ari
The mailman, crappy reality TV shows and Frank Gore – these are some of life's greatest consistencies. Every year fantasy pundits predict the rusher's demise. And every year they're forced to eat a large plate of crow. Despite his high odometer reading, the Niner continues to dole out punishment. Churning his legs behind one of the finest offensive lines in the league, he's smashed his way to 12.2 fantasy points per game in standard formats, the 13th-best mark among RBs. Though he's looked terrific in consecutive games, Gore 'The Snore' could sleepwalk through Week 6. Arizona's defensive line is the most unyielding in the league against the run. No unit has conceded fewer fantasy points to RBs. On the year, opposing rushers are averaging a yack-worthy 2.9 yards per carry and 56.6 rushing yards per game against it. Late-game exhaustion is a concern, particularly if Arizona gets buried early, but expect Calais Campbell and friends to stonewall the Gamorrean lookalike (NERD ALERT!) often.


.
Fearless Forecast: 19 carries, 63 rushing yards, 1 reception, 9 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 7.9 fantasy points

LeSean McCoy, Phi, RB (99-percent)
Matchup: at TB
It takes elephant-sized HUEVOS to feature the No. 3 ranked fantasy RB in this space, but the 'Fake' McCoy could make a guest appearance this week. Sans Michael Vick, the Eagles offense should sport a different look under second-year backup Nick Foles. The pace will remain frenetic, but the read-option will almost certainly be scrapped, allowing the Buccaneers to focus their attention on containing Shady. It's been a circus in Tampa the past few weeks, but, fresh off the bye, The Dictator's club will be more than ready. Even on a normal week, the Bucs have defended the run extremely well. No running back has crossed the chalk against them and they've allowed a mere 50.8 total yards per game and 3.7 yards per carry to RB1s. Gerald McCoy and ex-Illini Akeem Spence rank inside the top-20 stuffing the run per Pro Football Focus. McCoy could juke a werewolf in a phone booth, but criminally underutilized in the pass game, one has to wonder how effective he will be given the difficult road matchup.

Fearless Forecast: 20 carries, 74 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 12 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 10.1 fantasy points


Larry Fitzgerald, Ari, WR (84-percent)
Matchup: at SF
Outside the grating scream unleashed by Lloyd Christmas, there is nothing more annoying than backward thinkers who constantly remind fantasy players to 'Always start your studs.' The definition of a stud is far too broad. All players, no matter how consistent or reliable, are susceptible to down weeks. In a matchup-based game, underwhelming performances are bound to happen. Unfortunately for Arizona's top weapon downswings have become a common occurrence, tarnishing his must-start reputation. Currently ranked No. 28 in per game average among WRs, Fitz has yet to find a statistical oasis in the desert. 'Zona's shoddy offensive line has crippled Carson Palmer and the pass game. Palmer has been placed under pressure 38.3-percent of the time, completing just 45.9 percent of his attempts with the cooker on high. As a result, Fitz has netted six targets or less in three of five games and has yet to surpass the 85-yard mark this season. San Fran's aggressive pass rush and stiff secondary (third-fewest fantasy points allowed to WRs) is a recipe for fantasy disaster. Though his track-record against the Niners is quite good (18 games, 75.6 ypg, 11 TDs), the smart gamer would sit the supposed 'stud.'
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 61 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 9.8 fantasy points



Marques Colston, NO, WR (80-percent)
Matchup: at NE
Colston is a dice roll in Monopoly personified. Sometimes you land on Boardwalk. Most times you take up residence on Baltic Avenue. A true king of inconsistency, the Saints wideout has rarely found the end-zone this year, totaling a big fat bagel in the category since Week 1. Jimmy Graham's near invincibility inside the 20 combined with Drew Brees' reliance on the screen game with Pierre Thomas and Darren Sproles are mostly to blame. Overall, Colston has attracted just two red-zone targets in six games. Coming off his lowest point total of the season, expect the wideout to again deliver putrid numbers. The Pats, one of the league's most generous secondaries a year ago, have greatly improved in pass D thanks in large part to Aquib Talib. Ranked No. 3 in pass coverage according to Pro Football Focus, he's surrendered a 39.3 percent catch rate and 30.8 QB rating on the season. Likely to occasionally shadow the Saints slot man, Talib will force Brees to look elsewhere.
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 58 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 8.8 fantasy points
