2009-12-17

Jason Campbell(notes), Wash, QB (Noise QB Rank: 9, Start: 10-plus team leagues, 14% started)
Matchup: vs. NYG
Over the past several weeks Campbell has undergone an identity reconstruction. Sherm Lewis' implementation of short-step drops and timing routes has accelerated the QB's level of play. The signal caller admits the game has "really slowed down" since Lewis seized the play-calling reigns from Jim Zorn. The numbers support his feelings. Over the past five weeks, he's averaged 253.9 yards per game and totaled eight scores – good for the 11th-best per game output at his position. Success, however, is the sum of all parts. Protection up front and a revitalized ground game have helped minimize pocket chaos. The Giants, led by party crasher Justin Tuck(notes), are an aggressive defensive unit which relishes rattling quarterbacks. However, if Campbell is given enough time, he should pick apart a G-Men secondary ravaged by injuries. Since Week 9, New York has surrendered 303 yards per game and eight scores to passers, equal to the third-most fantasy points. A top-10 effort seems likely.
Fearless Forecast: 23-35, 267 passing yards, 2 touchdowns, 1 interception, 8 rushing yards, 20 fantasy points

Beanie Wells(notes), Ari, RB (Noise RB Rank: 14, Start: All Leagues, 30% started)
Matchup: at Det
The former Buckeye's matchup with the loathsome Lions in the Motor City will certainly evoke memories of his college arch-nemesis. If he imagines the Lions are colored maize and blue, a banner effort will certainly be achieved. You don't want to make Beanie angry. Despite coughing up the ball in a critical moment in last week's Grease Bowl versus San Francisco, Wells appears to have surpassed Tim Hightower(notes) in the rushing pecking order. He showed tremendous burst and humiliating power running for 79 yards on 15 carries (5.3 ypc). Detroit has actually performed respectably against soft run-blocking offenses (i.e. Green Bay), but, as Ray Rice(notes) proved a week ago, this is still an exploitable unit. Over the past five weeks the Hello Kitties have allowed 4.7 yards per carry, 189.4 total yards per game and six scores to rushers, equal to the third-most fantasy points. Because of Detroit's issues defending the pass, Kurt Warner(notes) will likely go ballistic, but Ken Whisenhunt and Russ Grimm are committed to establishing offensive balance. Wells will get plenty of work. Label him a strong RB2 in Week 15.
Fearless Forecast: 17 carries, 86 rushing yards, 1 receptions, 11 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 15 fantasy points

Justin Forsett(notes), Sea, RB (Noise RB Rank: 19, Start: All Leagues, 44% started)
Matchup: vs. TB
Jim Mora Jr. has finally removed head from posterior. Or so we think. Before last week's lopsided defeat in Houston, the stubborn coach expressed his desire to increase Forsett's role. Because Julius Jones(notes) would have difficulty eluding a sea monkey, it only made sense the more effective rusher would be provided additional opportunities. Unfortunately, in-game circumstances crippled Forsett's chances of resurgence last week. Still, he totaled a noteworthy 73 yards on just 13 touches. This week against the woeful Bucs his workload should expand. Tampa has conceded 4.9 yards per carry, 163 total yards per game and seven TDs to runners since Week 9, equal to the fifth-most fantasy points. Seattle's offense has remained in neutral for much of the season, but this week at home, the Hawks should shift gears. Based on Tampa's trench issues, expect the versatile dynamo to puncture the RB top 20 with ease.
Fearless Forecast: 14 carries, 64 rushing yards, 4 receptions, 32 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 15 fantasy points

Willis McGahee(notes), Bal, RB (Noise RB Rank: 22, Start: 10-teams plus flex, 15% started)
Matchup: vs. Chi
The bane of Ray Rice owners' existence is once again twisting the dagger. Part of Baltimore's renewed three-headed hydra, McGahee has reclaimed his role as goal-line sniffer scoring four times in his past five contests. Cam Cameron and John Harbaugh, obvious supporters of Obama's green agenda, have stressed the need to be an "all-weather offense." They feel running the ball in chilly conditions will be the key to landing a spot in the second season. Though the outcome of last week's matchup against the Lions was determined early, the trio of backs saw significant action. McGahee compiled 78 yards and two scores on 13 touches. Against Chicago, the TD poacher's workload will likely be smaller, but even with limited touches he should produce an appreciable yield. Over the past five weeks, the Paddington Bears have allowed 4.5 yards per carry 153.2 total yards per game and six scores to backs, equal to the 10th-most fantasy points. Jay Cutler's(notes) proneness to self-destruction combined with the Ravens' exceptional run-blocking suggest McGahee could again tally terrific flex totals in 12-team and deeper formats.
Fearless Forecast: 10 carries, 41 rushing yards, 1 reception, 6 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 10 fantasy points

Antonio Bryant(notes), TB, WR (Noise WR Rank: 11, Start: All Leagues, 51% started)
Matchup: at Sea
The serial name-dropper, who commented two weeks ago he wants a similar workload as "good pal" Andre Johnson(notes), may have a future roster spot on the Los Angeles Arnolds (Get to the choppa!!!). Humility apparently isn't one of Bryant's finer qualities, but he has a point. Clearly the most talented wideout on roster, last season's playoff hero has netted just 6.8 targets per game since his return. This week in Seattle, double-digit looks are a strong possibility. Marcus Trufant(notes) played with his pants down in last week's blowout loss to Houston. Bryant's home-skillet, Johnson, exploded for 11 catches, 193 yards and two scores, his highest fantasy output of the season. Due to Josh Freeman's(notes) turnover magnetism, the Hawks will certainly follow an aggressive blueprint. But if the Bucs' hogs up front can protect the rookie adequately, he should connect with Bryant early and often. Since Week 9, no defense has been more generous to receivers than Seattle. Over that stretch, the flightless birds have surrendered 10 touchdowns and six 70-yard WR performances. Expect Bryant to post his best effort of the season.
Fearless Forecast: 6 receptions, 118 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 17 fantasy points

Mike Sims-Walker(notes), Jac, WR (Noise WR Rank: 13, Start: All Leagues, 40% started)
Matchup: vs. Ind
Despite being severely limited by a calf injury in practice last week, the Hyphenated Great cowboyed up. Unfortunately, those who employed his services were gifted a holed-out pastry. At least the sprinkles were tasty. Healthier entering action this week, Sims-Walker should be trusted against a Colts team simply going through the motions. With playoff hopes on the line, the Jags must play their best game of the season. Another home loss would be crippling. Indy's young secondary was manhandled by MSW's former Central Florida teammate Brandon Marshall(notes) a week ago, surrendering an NFL-record 21 catches. Because of the young wideout's size and athleticism another Golden Knight should skewer Indy's banged up secondary. The unblemished Colts have allowed the fourth-most fantasy points to wideouts since Week 9. Have faith.
Fearless Forecast: 6 receptions, 78 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 13 fantasy points

Lee Evans(notes), Buf, WR (Noise WR Rank: 22, Start: All Leagues, 28% started)
Matchup: vs. NE
For those diversifying their portfolios, investing in Evans Enterprises is a savvy move. The profitable wideout has earned a staggering $291,105 per catch this season. Cha-chump! Terrell Owens'(notes) resurrection has turned the speedster into a one-catch pony in recent weeks. Since Week 11 he's failed to cannonball into the invisible pool and snagged just five passes for 104 yards. Despite his disappearing act, Evans is someone worth trusting this week. Saying New England has struggled in pass coverage is a gross understatement. The Pats made Matt Moore(notes) look semi-competent last week. Since Week 9, they've yielded 10 touchdowns and six 80-yard performances to pass catchers, equal to the second-most fantasy points. Due to New England's coverage shortcomings, Perry Fewell will likely install an aggressive vertical gameplan. Based on the strides Ryan Fitzpatrick(notes) has made over the second half, it's possible Evans could finally break a long one or three. Outspoken Bills fans shouldn't strap him to an intertube and toss him over Niagara Falls just yet.
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 58 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 11 fantasy points

Fred Davis(notes), Wash, TE (Noise TE Rank: 6, Start: All Leagues, 31% started)
Matchup: vs. NYG
Housewives of New Jersey beware. Another suggestive Davis end-zone dance this week, and your leopard-printed thongs will disintegrate. The somewhat arrogant former Trojan has quietly excelled in Lewis' revamped offense. Over the past five weeks he's totaled 18 catches, 220 yards and four touchdowns. His resulting 9.2 points per game mark ranks fourth at his position, one spot behind Dallas Clark(notes). Similar to intradivision rival Philadelphia, the Giants simply refuse to shadow tight ends. The loss of Antonio Pierce(notes) has only amplified this issue. On the season they've surrendered 69.2 yards per game and eight scores to oversized targets, equal to the second-most fantasy points. Davis, who is Campbell's primary target inside the 20, goes all Chippendale's once again.
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 55 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 11 fantasy points
