2014-11-06


Colin Kaepernick, SF, QB (50 percent started)
Matchup: at NO
Broken. Fractured. Displaced. No matter how one describes it, the Niners, a popular expert playoff pick not long ao, are a team in disarray. The Halloween hangover they experienced last week against the basement-dwelling Rams, post-bye mind you, was nothing short of jaw-dropping. They were unorganized, unprepared and ineffective. Swarmed under a whopping eight times by the St. Louis pass rush, Kaepernick was a deer in headlights, a remarkable turn of events when just three weeks prior he ripped the Rams for a season-best 343 yards and three touchdowns. His uneventful 237-1-0-15 line finished No. 19 among Week 9 QBs. Kaep has performed well in several categories this season, most notably ranking inside the top-12 in deep-ball passing and accuracy percentage. Sadly, though, his QB14 rank hasn't entirely moved the meter. His paper matchup this week is favorable. According to Pro Football Focus, the Saints check in at No. 27 in pass coverage. However, evident in their efforts against Cam Newon in Week 9, they've made strides. And you know in light of Kaepernick folding under the pressure last Sunday, Rob Ryan will bring the house with regularity. Tread lightly. 
Fearless Forecast: 22-36, 263 passing yards, 1 passing touchdown, 1 interception, 29 rushing yards, 19.0 fantasy points




.

.
Jamaal Charles, KC, RB (97 percent started)
Matchup: at Buf
Listing the JC of KC in this space may seem blasphemous, but the chances of him posting unexceptional numbers are considerable. Unlike many exorbitant RBs, Charles has actually kept his owners afloat. While he does have a rather lowly 78.5 total yards per game average, primarily due to a shrunken role in the pass game, crossing the chalk with regularity (seven times in his last five games) has helped him maintain a RB1 profile. He's No. 10 at the position with 16.3 PPR points per game. Still, big gainers have been few and far between, evident in his 21.5 breakaway percentage (No. 21 among RBs). Blame the rebuilt offensive line. The Chiefs are the fourth-worst run-blocking unit in the NFL according to Pro Football Focus. No longer bumbling, the once overly generous Bills run defense has tightened significantly. Nearly impregnable, Kyle Williams and company have given up just 3.27 yards per carry to rushers. Only three rushers have crossed the 10-fantasy-point threshold against them this year. Charles will receive his usual 18-22 touches, but expect only modest results. 
Fearless Forecast: 18 carries, 74 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 11 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 10.0 fantasy points



.
Lamar Miller, Mia, RB (67 percent started)
Matchup: at Det
For the better part of the last two seasons, several fantasy owners have waited on pins and needles for Miller to deliver on his RB2 promise. This year, they got their wish. Without much fanfare, the ex-Hurricane has blown through opponents, drowning the competition in a sea of fantasy points. Benefiting from Knowshon Moreno's absence, he's rolled up 4.89 yards per carry, contributed meaningful stats in the pass game (21-158-1) and forced the same number of missed tackles (17) as juke artist Giovani Bernard. His subsequent 15.4 points per game in PPR leagues ranks No. 11, greatly outpacing the likes of first-rounders Eddie Lacy and LeSean McCoy. Miller is dealing with a mild AC sprain in his shoulder, but indications suggest he will be available in Detroit. Dinged wing or not, he isn't the strongest option when weighing the matchup. A well-behaved Ndamukong Suh has routinely munched on running backs. His 16 stops rank near the top of the league among defensive tackles. Collectively, Detroit has allowed a mere 3.15 yards per carry to RBs. Chris Ivory is the only rusher to surpass 65 yards on the ground against the unit. Because the Lions are susceptible in the short field, Miller should post useful numbers in PPR settings. Still, don't anticipate stately production in standard leagues. 
Fearless Forecast: 15 attempts, 54 rushing yards, 5 receptions, 33 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 12.4 fantasy points




.
Steve Smith, Bal, WR (75 percent started)
Matchup: vs. Ten
Golf outings, shuffleboard sessions and bridge games were at the forefront of the elderly receiver's mind just months ago. Released by Carolina, he debated whether or not to call it quits. But a phone call from Ozzie Newsome changed Smith's perspective. The fantasy community is thankful he answered. Chugging medicinal waters from the beer bong of youth, he's rediscovered his Pro Bowl form. Smith's 15.7 per game yield ranks top-16 at the position. However, much of that production came earlier in the season. Over his past three games, he accounted for just 11 catches for 138 yards and zero touchdowns. Another unsatisfactory effort could be in the offing. Fresh off the bye, Tennessee welcomes back corner Coty Sensabaugh. When in uniform he and Jason McCourty have worked well together. Combined they've allowed a respectable 12.6 yards per catch. Overall, only four WRs have found the end zone against the Titans. Smith should post employable numbers in deeper leagues, but another unextraordinary week is likely in standard settings. Given the Titans' shortcomings stopping the run, I expect a heavy dose of Justin Forsett and Lorenzo Taliaferro. 
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 58 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 9.5 fantasy points 



.
Alshon Jeffery, Chi, WR (74 percent started)
Matchup: at GB
After a thumping of epic proportions in New England, gray skies over Chicago only darkened during the Bears' bye week. Marc Trestman is at a crossroads. Rumors are swirling around the Windy City, the second-year coach's job could be in jeopardy. Oh how quickly perceptions can change. The road to recovery is a bumpy one for the Bears. The Packers, who dispatched their archrival 38-17 in Chicago Week 4, are firing on all cylinders, particularly in the secondary. Calvin Johnson and Brandin Cooks are the only wideouts to total 80 or more yards against them this year. They've also surrendered the fourth-fewest pass plays of 20-plus yards. Jeffery hasn't exactly lived up to the WR1 preseason hype. He ranks No. 20 at the position in per game average, but, much like the Bears as a whole, he's been erratic at times. He totaled 61 yards and a TD in the first matchup, but with CB Sam Shields (55.2 catch percentage allowed) expected back for the Pack and given the tough road environment, he could take a backseat. At some point, Jay Cutler will force feed a grumpy Brandon Marshall, relegating Alshon to a limited role. Gut feeling says this is that week. 
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 62 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 9.2 fantasy points 


