2015-09-16

Carson Palmer, Ari, QB (11%)
Matchup: at Chi
We all knew Andre Ellington was constructed from tissue paper, but a substantial injury in Week 1? Seriously?! With the multipurpose rusher in street clothes, Bruce Arians will install a Johnson & Johnson backfield, a Band-Aid that will barely stop the bleeding, even in an attractive matchup against the Bears. Suffice it to say, Palmer better do an extra curl or two in the gym this week. Hosting the Saints Week 1, the veteran was brilliant. Though Michael Floyd played zero factor in his return to action, the Red Baron dropped bombs on the New Orleans secondary. He completed 19-of-32 attempts for 307 yards and three scores. His resulting 11.8 aDOT (average depth of target), topped only by Ryan Fitzpatrick (12.7) and Ben Roethlisberger (12.2), was off the charts. Most importantly, he was placed under pressure on just 24.3 percent of his dropbacks. Give Palmer time in 'Zona's no-huddle and he'll slice and dice defenses, including Chicago's. Aaron Rodgers tallied a modest 189 pass yards against the Bears last week, but found the end-zone three times and completed 78.3 percent of his attempts. Corners Alan Ball and Kyle Fuller, who ranked No. 69 and No. 79 respectively in coverage Week 1 according to Pro Football Focus, will be picked on. The 17th-highest QB on the Yahoo DFS board, he's one of the better bargains at the position.
Fearless Forecast: 21-35, 278 passing yards, 2 passing touchdowns, 0 interceptions, 19.1 fantasy points

Bishop Sankey, Ten, RB (13%)
Matchup: at Cle
Regurgitated sloppy Joes. That's what Sankey looked like his rookie season. But ignoring the superficial numbers, the Washington product was an effective back under the surface. He ranked No. 10 among RBs in elusive rating and posted a very laudable 66.4 yards after contact percentage. However, his No. 42 final positional standing squashed any positive thoughts. As a result, he slipped into the double-digit rounds of most 2016 drafts. Those who paid the low cover charge may end up dancing the season away. Sankey was sensational Week 1 against Tampa. His 0.95 fantasy points per opportunity ranked No. 1 among RBs. Overall, he totaled 86 yards, scored twice and gained 56 of his 72 rush yards after contact. Terrance West only had one fewer touch (13 vs. 14), but Sankey was clearly the more effective back. A committee approach will continue this week in Cleveland. Still, the sophomore rusher is a recommended start/buy in all formats. The Chihuahuas, who ranked dead last defending the run in 2014, picked up where they left off, conceding 91 rush yards and a pair of scores to Chris Ivory last Sunday. Overall, Jets backs averaged 4.56 yards per carry. If Marcus Mariota continues to shine, Sankey will again crack the RB top-20 with relative ease. At a penny-pinching $16 in Yahoo DFS, he's the definition of 'bargain basement buy.' Load up. 
Fearless Forecast: 13 carries, 52 rushing yards, 4 receptions, 26 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 15.8 fantasy points

Ronnie Hillman, Den, RB (4%)
Matchup: at KC
For those are already labeling C.J. Anderson 'Montee Ball 2.0,' relax. Sure the rusher swam backstrokes in a cesspool Week 1, but the unfriendly matchup (vs. Bal) and toe injury he suffered mid-game certainly limited him. When healthy, he's the best all-around RB on roster. However, because of the short week, it's entirely possible Gary Kubiak will hold back his young rusher. That happens, and Hillman could slash and dash his way to a very profitable evening. Recall Ronnie was very impressive in a full-time role from Weeks 7-12 last year (81. 5 yards per game, 4 TDs, RB12). It seems plausible he will tote the heavy side of the committee Thursday night. Last week he saw only 17 snaps against Baltimore, but accounted for 41 yards on 12 carries, an output highlighted by a pair of clutch fourth-quarter runs. With or without CJA, he should generate at least 15 touches Thursday night. On most occasions, Arrowhead is rather unwelcoming. However, the Chiefs did surrender 4.6 yards per carry to a Houston backfield spearheaded by vanilla sophomore Alfred Blue last Sunday. If the Denver offensive line, which ranked No. 10 in run-blocking Week 1 according to PFF, can muster consistent push, Hillman will crack the RB top-20. After last week, Kubiak will want to alleviate pressure on a fading Peyton Manning. Admittedly, Hilliman is a flier, but there's a ton of profit potential here in all formats. 
Fearless Forecast: 15 carries, 68 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 9 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 14.7 fantasy points

Steve Smith, Bal, WR (49%)
Matchup: at Oak
When Smith entered the league roughly 1,368 years ago, most people believed Chris Berman was still cool. The receiver has certainly been around the block. Unlike previous seasons, the old codger didn't sprint out of the gate Week 1. Against arguably the league's nastiest secondary, Denver, he was bottled up catching just two passes (on six targets) for 13 yards. However, a quick turnaround is on the horizon. This is Marc Trestman's supposed high-flying offense after all and the matchup is awfully attractive. Last Sunday against visiting Cincinnati, the Raiders once again resembled the bumbling marauders we've grown accustomed to seeing. Manhandled in all facets, they surrendered nearly 400 yards of total offense and 6.1 yards per gain. Most damning, they lost starting safeties Charles Woodson (shoulder) and Nate Allen (knee) to significant injuries. Larry Asante, who allowed a 118.8 QB rating to his assignments last Sunday, and rookie Keenan Lambert will now have the daunting task of grounding the Ravens. And don't expect the pair to get much assistance. DB D.J. Hayden ranked dead last in pass coverage among Week 1 corners per PFF. Put it all together and  Senior Smith should be Flacco's go-to option, possibly enticing 10-plus targets. 
Fearless Forecast: 6 receptions, 94 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 18.4 fantasy points 

Donte Moncrief, Ind, WR (8%)
Matchup: vs. NYJ
Welcome to fantasy relevancy, Mr. Moncrief. Colts Pro Bowl selection T.Y. Hilton banged his knee in the opener at Buffalo. Diagnosed with a deep bruise, he was originally expected to miss multiple games. The team, however, officially designated him 'day-to-day' on Monday, an incredibly vague timetable. Just ask those who freaked out about Alshon Jeffery in August. Assuming Hilton is unavailable, the second-year Ole Miss product is a highly employable WR3 in 12-team and deeper leagues and a superb low-cost DFS buy. One of my favorite WR prospects from last year's draft. he possesses the size, long speed and separation skills necessary to reap much success. His 6-46-1 line last week in Buffalo was just a preview. With the exception of a 54-yard Johnny Manziel-to-Travis Benjamin connection, the Jets secondary played well in its opener, Darrelle Revis and Marcus Williams in particular. But if Revis primarily shadows Andre Johnson, Moncrief could be Andrew Luck's money man. Again, if Hilton is sidelined, the wideout could meet or exceed the 11 targets he totaled in Week 1. Keep in mind, New York's D is run stiff. You simply can't lose at $13. 
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 67 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 15.2 fantasy points

Gavin Escobar, Dal, TE (1%), SHOCKER SPECIAL
Matchup: at Phi
Dez Bryant's foot ailment was an anvil-drop to the crotch. His projected 4-8 week absence is a massive blow to the Cowboys and fantasy rosters. But the show must go on. Many believe Terrance Williams is destined for the biggest uptick in value. Though somewhat improved, the WR doesn't have enough branches on the route tree to fill Dez's enormous shoes. I'm convinced Tony Romo will spread the love between Williams, Cole Beasley, Jason Witten, Lance Dunbar and Escobar. The oversized target, deployed almost exclusively inside the red zone (20 career catches, seven touchdowns), may see more action between the 20s in two-TE sets. He won't be a high-volume weapon, but at 6-foot-6, 260-pounds and equipped with adequate speed, he may see 5-7 targets per game moving forward. That could certainly be the case given the shootout potential in Philly (55.5 Vegas over/under). The Eagles' uptempo offense almost always press teams to chuck it. If you're in the market for a discount TE, Escobar is your guy. 
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 48 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 12.8 fantasy points

