2009-09-10

Joe Flacco, Bal, QB (Noise Rank: 12, Start: 12-team-plus leagues)

Matchup: vs. KC

The buildup to Flacco's projected breakthrough season has a similar sound to Phil Collins' "In the Air Tonight." Quiet and creeping in the preseason, his percussion-heavy crescendo could be reached immediately. One of the worst defensive units in tackle football a season ago, KC, under the guidance of Todd Haley, made only minor improvements over the offseason. Last year, the Chiefs surrendered 237.9 passing yards and 1.5 air strikes per game, equal to the 11th-most fantasy points allowed to QBs. Flacco was noticeably sharp in preseason action, completing over 65 percent of his attempts. Though Clancy Pendergast will throw variable stunts and twists at the young signal caller, which he is concerned about, the Ravens' offensive line and suitable dump-off weapons should prove devastating. Flacco's been waiting for this moment all his life, oh lord...

Fearless Forecast: 21-31, 227 passing yards, 2 touchdowns, 0 interceptions, 17 rushing yards, 20 fantasy points

Mike Bell, NO, RB (Noise Rank: 19, Start: Flex, 10-teams-plus)

Matchup: vs. Det

With Pierre Thomas limited to pedaling on a stationary bike Wednesday, it appears the Week 1 star of '06 could recapture the magic he briefly flashed under Lucifer Shanahan. In our riveting conversation with Thomas last Friday, the PT Bruiser, whose soothing voice could comfort the Noise during a nuclear firestorm, spoke highly of his teammate's preseason progression. His praise is understandable. A trimmed down, recommitted Bell compiled an otherworldly 7.7 yards per carry mark, gaining the respect of Sean Payton. Detroit should show some improvement on defense this year, but collectively the unit is still a sieve. Recall a year ago the loathsome Lions conceded 5.4 yards per carry, 189.8 total yards and 1.8 TDs per contest to rushers equal to the most fantasy points allowed. The former Bronco will split touches with Bush, but his pounding interior style will earn him sizable red zone touches. Exploit the matchup.

Fearless Forecast: 16 carries, 83 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 11 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 15 fantasy points

Leon Washington, NYJ, RB (Noise Rank: 21, Start: Flex, 10-teams-plus)

Matchup: at Hou

Leon the Leprechaun could be rookie Mark Sanchez's "Lucky Charm" of sorts this season. Quick, nimble, explosive and ultra-versatile, the lethal weapon's skill set immediately captured the attention of new head coach Rex Ryan in training camp. Expected to tote the rock more this season, Washington should net roughly 15 touches in his ‘09 debut. Because of the Jets' stout offensive line and Houston's willingness to surrender big plays, he's must start material even in shallow formats. Last season, the Texans allowed 148.6 total yards and 1.2 touchdowns per contest to RBs equal to the eighth most fantasy points conceded. Marshall Faulk said recently Washington's elusiveness and burst was comparable to Barry Sanders'. Given the matchup and situation, the miniature back may indeed emulate the Sandman.

Fearless Forecast: 13 carries, 72 rushing yards, 5 receptions, 53 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 18 fantasy points

Darren Sproles, SD, RB (Noise Rank: 22, Start: Flex, 12-teams-plus)

Matchup: at Oak

Even with minimal touches, San Diego's ball of lightning will singe the few remaining hairs on Al Davis' head. Considering LaDainian Tomlinson's advanced age, Norv Turner will turn to Sproles approximately 10-12 times per contest to ease the burden. Because the Raiders' 4-3 unit has performed pathetically against the run in recent seasons - they allowed 172.7 total yards and 1.7 scores to rushers last year - the Pocket Rocket's chances of breaking a long play via ground or air are favorable. In '08, Sproles averaged 40.5 total yards per contest and splashed pay-dirt twice in two appearances against the Silver and Black. Slide him into the flex spot in deeper leagues.

Fearless Forecast: 10 carries, 51 rushing yards, 4 receptions, 33 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 14 fantasy points

Lance Moore, NO, WR (Noise Rank: 13, Start: WR2, 10-teams-plus)

Matchup: vs. Det

Sir Lance-a-Lot and his roundtable knights are poised to slue the Hello Kitties Week 1. Recovering from offseason shoulder surgery during most of training camp, last season's surprise wire sensation was constantly overlooked in drafts. Back at full-strength, Moore worked tirelessly with Drew Brees on slants and hooks after practice in August determined to prove '08 wasn't a fluke. That established rapport will be deadly against a Detroit secondary that yielded ten 90-yard receivers a season ago. Marques Colston is option No. 1, but Brees' secondary choice is poised to pick up where he left off.

Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 77 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 13 fantasy points

Josh Morgan, SF, WR (Noise Rank: 24, Start: WR2/3, 12-teams-plus)

Matchup: at Ari

With Michael Crabtree feeding Benjamins to his pet goat, Morgan is primed to steal the spotlight many thought would be reserved for San Fran's top draft choice. An incredibly gifted athlete with the necessary tools to be a dependable asset, the second-year receiver is on the precipice of stardom. Offensive coordinator Jimmy Raye still feels Morgan is a "developing player," but emphasized if he makes the proper mental preparations, Niners fans and the fantasy community will see a "flourishing, good player." During the regular season last year, Arizona's secondary was several steps below atrocious. In total, the vulnerable unit allowed 24 touchdowns to wideouts, the most in the league. Because shootouts are common in the desert, the emerging Morgan is a commodity to trust opening week.

Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 68 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 12 fantasy points

Donald Driver, GB, WR (Noise Rank: 18, Start: WR2, 12-teams-plus)

Matchup: vs. Chi

According to numerous reports and observations, the 34-year-old Driver is in the best shape of his career. The chiseled wideout, who is motivated by the almighty dollar, wants to maintain an image of consistency. Matched against a Bears secondary which could be without the services of Charles Tillman, the veteran could once again cage his arch NFC North foe. Last season in two contests against the Black and Blue, he snagged 10 passes for 123 yards. With Aaron Rodgers peaking, Driver's role cemented within Green Bay's dynamite spread system and Chicago's sketchy secondary; he has excellent odds of posting standout Week 1 numbers. Keep in mind the Bears allowed the third-most fantasy points to WRs in '08.

Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 74 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 13 fantasy points

Visanthe Shiancoe, Min, TE (Noise Rank: 6, Start: TE1, 8-teams-plus)

Matchup: at Cle

The NFL's most notorious locker-room flasher will expose more than his undercarriage against the Browns Week 1. Cleveland was one of the league's premiere defenses against tight ends a season ago conceding just one touchdown. But the instant chemistry forged between Shiancoe and Brett Favre cannot be underestimated. Within Brad Childress' West Coast scheme, the short-field will be dominated by the veteran weapon. Based on his marked athleticism, speed and strength, the breakthrough candidate will prove difficult to contain for any defense. Start Shiancoe with confidence in all formats.

Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 61 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 12 fantasy points
