2009-09-10

Tony Romo, Dal, QB (Noise Rank: 17, Bench: 8-12 team leagues)

Matchup: at TB

Not falling under the "Always start your studs" axiom, Romo is a pine-worthy prospect this week. For the first time in over a decade, the Buccs plan to stray away from the Dungy-implemented Cover 2, installing a more diverse, complicated and aggressive scheme. As Raheem Morris discussed Wednesday, applying copious pressure on the pocket will be a critical part of Tampa's gameplan. Historically tough at home, Ronde Barber and company allowed just three multi-TD passers in eight contests at the Ray. If the Buccs were comprised of gorgeous blondes, Romo would have a field day, but with Roy Williams dinged and given the QB's rollercoaster preseason, he's untrustworthy on the road.

Fearless Forecast: 21-34, 244 passing yards, 1 touchdown, 2 interceptions, 8 rushing yards

Clinton Portis, Was, RB (Noise Rank: 28, Bench: 8-10 team leagues)

Matchup: at NYG

"Life, liberty and the pursuit of crapiness," has always been this Washington representative's motto against the G-Men. In two clashes with his divisional rival a season ago, Portis tallied a lowly 3.1 yards per carry, 50.5 total yards per game and zero touchdowns. More discouraging, in his nine-year career, he's averaged a mere 4.0 yards per carry and 78 rushing yards per game against New York. The Drag Queen of Mean has spoken highly of the ‘Skins' offensive line, but the Giants' D-lineman should be able to puncture the backfield often, severely hindering his points scoring potential.

Fearless Forecast: 21 carries, 69 rushing yards, 1 reception, 7 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns

Chris Johnson, Ten, RB (Noise Rank: 24, Bench: 8-10 team leagues)

Matchup: at Pit

Captain Quick is unmistakably the AFC's preeminent home-run hitter. But piercing Pittsburgh's stifling 3-4 defense is normally a fruitless endeavor, especially at Heinz Field. Last year, the Steelers yielded zero 100-yard rushers, 3.4 yards per carry and the second-fewest fantasy points to RBs. Johnson was moderately successful against Steely McBeam in his lone effort a season ago, totaling 70 yards and a score. However, the underwhelming performance of the Titans' offensive line during the preseason combined with the Steelers' unbendable frontline is worrisome. Benching your first-round pick may seem absurd, but the paper matchup is definitely unattractive.

Fearless Forecast: 16 carries, 58 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 10 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns (ACTUAL:15 carries, 57 rushing yards, 1 reception, 11 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns)

Marion Barber, Dal, RB (Noise Rank: 26, Bench: 8-10 team leagues)

Matchup: at TB

The Barbarian will wield a sock puppet rather than his customary battleaxe this week in Tampa. With a steady diet of "relentless pressure" on the menu, Barber's best bet for posting admirable numbers will likely be through the air. Last season, visiting rushers averaged just 3.6 yards per carry and 80.5 rushing yards at the Ray. Michael Bush and Pierre Thomas were the only plowshares who scored. More damaging, Jason Garrett recently suggested Felix Jones, who performed laudably during exhibition play in the red zone, could wrest away touches in between-the-tackles situations. For owners who sank a second-round pick in the Dallas starter, Week 1 is only the beginning of what could be the Year of the Felix.

Fearless Forecast: 17 carries, 63 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 18 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns

Steve Smith, Car, WR (Noise Rank: 19, No Bench)

Matchup: Phi

Every tumultuous training camp, Smith seems to emerge from the turmoil unscathed. But with the hard-hitting Eagles defense on the docket, he could be poised for a letdown this go-round. Led by Quintin Mikell and exorbitant acquisition Asante Samuel, Philly's secondary is one of the finest corps in the NFC. Because Smith is slippery and very dangerous in space, look for defensive coordinator Sean McDermott to stress press coverage. Though largely consistent, Smith will occasionally vanish at times like he did in Weeks 10 and 16 last year. Based on the matchup, he very easily could be a source of marginality.

Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 65 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns

Terrell Owens, Buf, WR (Noise Rank: 21, Bench: 10-team, two WR leagues)

Matchup: at NE

To the Buffalo Bills, 3-4 defenses remain giant, unsolvable Sudoku puzzles. Struggling immensely against the Packers and Steelers in preseason action, the offense has often looked discombobulated and lethargic, which explains why Turk Schonert was canned. Unsurprisingly, the vocal Owens has already expressed his disdain for the no huddle scheme. If Jim Kelly was his QB, he might think otherwise. The Patriots secondary was vertically challenged at times last season, yielding the sixth-most fantasy points to wideouts. However, no Bills receiver eclipsed 65 yards against Beezlechick's bunch. Due to Buffalo's offensive woes against the 3-4 (Note: The Pats have switched primarily to a 4-3 scheme, but they will surely turn back the clock to frustrate the Bills) the popcorn won't be poppin' in Foxboro for the Orville Redenbacher of receivers.

Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 45 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns

Dwayne Bowe, KC, WR (Noise Rank: 27, Bench: 12-team, two WR leagues)

Matchup: at Bal

Following Brandon Marshall's Handbook on Explosive Temper Tantrums word-for-word throughout the preseason, Bowe's egomaniacal attitude was not fondly received by new head coach Todd Haley. Demoted at one time to the scout team, the cumbersome receiver at first responded negatively to Haley's tough-love approach. But, as the coach divulged earlier this week, the former LSU standout has "made very good progress; he's starting to get it." Though Bowe's "come to Jesus" moment is encouraging, his matchup in Baltimore is everything but. Only eight receivers surpassed the 70-yard mark last season against the suffocating Ravens. With Matt Cassel's status undetermined and the KC offensive line a squalid mess, the Chiefs offense will likely flounder in every facet of the game. Chris Henry (vs. Den), Earl Bennett (at GB) and Chris Chambers (at Oak) are more reliable options.

Fearless Forecast: 3 receptions, 36 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns

Tony Gonzalez, Atl, TE (Noise Rank: 7, Bench: No Bench)

Matchup: vs. Mia

Gonzalez is arguably the greatest tight end in NFL history. However, in his Falcons debut, his iconic image could be tarnished. Though the dependable target isn't worried about his expected looks decline, the fantasy community certainly is. He'll still be one of the position's most targeted weapons, but sharing the sugar with Roddy White and Michael Jenkins will prove problematic at times. More worrisome, Atlanta's dedication to feeding The Burner inside the red zone could limit Gonzalez's TD prowess. The future HOFer was the only tight end to score against Miami last year. But the Fins' familiarity with him squashes the element of surprise. Undoubtedly, Joey Porter will have the oversized target lined up in the crosshairs.

Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 51 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns
