2014-10-23

Jay Cutler, Chi, QB (63%)
Matchup: at NE
What version of Cutler will make an appearance this week? The fantasy handsome Dr. Jekyll or his sinister alter-ego Mr. Hyde? With Halloween just around the corner and based on the passer's recent schlock play, it only seems appropriate the latter manifests in Foxborough. Cutler, called out by Brandon Marshall for his shoddy execution last week vs. Miami, is not exactly a well-liked individual currently in the Bears locker room. As he's done too often in his career, he's forced the issue, making poor decisions and awful back-foot throws that have disastrous results. His 74.2 QB rating, 5.59 yards per attempt and dreadful effort (0-for-4) on deep-ball attempts against the Dolphins was unsightly. With only two TDs to his name over the past two weeks, his QB1 image is far from impeccable. Looking at his Week 8 matchup, it's likely he'll only smudge it more. Darrelle Revis, who ranks No. 54 in pass coverage according to Pro Football Focus, hasn't exactly isolated targets on an island. Allowing a 61.3 catch rate and 14.1 yards per catch, he's played average at best. Still, many in the Patriots defensive backfield have picked up the slack. Brandon Browner was decent in his return last week. Others, like Devin McCourty and Kyle Arrington, have also stepped up. Overall, only Alex Smith has reached the 20-fantasy-point mark in standard Yahoo formats against them. They've also surrendered just 6.88 yards per attempts and the fifth-fewest fantasy points to QBs. Jay won't pay this Sunday. 
Fearless Forecast: 24-37, 257 passing yards, 1 passing touchdown, 2 interceptions, 9 rushing yards, 15.7 fantasy points 

Branden Oliver, SD, RB (73%)
Matchup: at Den
Over the past three weeks, Oliver has written a Cinderella story. An undrafted rookie from Buffalo, he made some noise in the preseason but started the year fourth on the San Diego depth chart. Three major injuries to Ryan Mathews, Danny Woodhead and Donald Brown later, and the sparkplug has ignited a previously stagnate Chargers ground game. Since Week 5, he's totaled 128 combined yards per game and three touchdowns, gaining an impressive 62 percent of his yards after initial contact. Sadly, though, the clock strikes midnight for the kid this week. When it comes to defending the run, Denver rarely relents. Thanks to the stellar play of Von Miller and the other Brandon Marshall, running backs have found few holes. On the year, RBs have netted a ghastly 2.89 yards per carry against the Broncos. San Diego's patchwork offensive line will certainly have its hands full. Evidenced in the efforts of Ahmad Bradshaw, Marshawn Lynch and Andre Ellington, versatile rushers have inflicted damage in the pass game. With that in mind, Oliver, who's caught 14 passes in his past four contests, is still a useful PPR option. However, expect vanilla production on the ground, especially if Peyton Manning, facing a San Diego secondary sans Brandon Flowers, blows the doors off the building early. 
Fearless Forecast: 14 carries, 48 rushing yards, 4 receptions, 22 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 10.0 fantasy points

LeSean McCoy, Phi, RB (61%)
Matchup: at Ari
For those that invested a No. 1 pick in McCoy, liver expansion has occurred at an alarming rate. His bland efforts over the first several weeks left a bitter taste. However, his 154-total yard bounce-back against the Giants prior to the bye has his fans excited about the second half of the fantasy season. With the Philly offensive line getting healthy, things are looking up for Shady, but his Week 8 trip to Arizona could temporarily halt the comeback. Stretching back to last year, visiting RBs have averaged a disgusting 3.09 yards per carry inside the UPS. In fact, among that group, Marshawn Lynch is the only rusher to eclipse the 60-yard mark on the ground in the desert. And just four have found the end zone. It's a rather extraordinary accomplishment considering the loses of Darnell Dockett and Calais Campbell. Credit DC Todd Bowles' base 3-4 scheme. In a game with enormous playoff seeding implications, the Cards erect brick walls in the trenches. 
Fearless Forecast: 20 carries, 75 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 8 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 9.8 fantasy points

DeSean Jackson, Was, WR (72%)
Matchup: at Dal
After tripping out of the gate, D-Jax has come on like gangbusters over the past few weeks. Clicking with Kirk Cousins, he compiled the seventh-best stat line among wide receivers from Weeks 3-7, amassing 17 receptions for 443 yards and three touchdowns. But with Captain Kirk now battling Klingons on Kronos, questions loom regarding the receiver's Week 8 value. Colt McCoy was magical in relief of Cousins last week going 11-for-12 for 128 yards and a TD. However, the elevated backup seemed to favor Pierre Garcon and Jordan Reed. More damning, McCoy's arm pairs nicely with chicken broth, it's a noodle. RG3, who practiced with the first-team Wednesday, could also return, greatly complicating matters. If No. 10 did start, how rusty would he be? Then there's the unsavory matchup. The shockingly good Cowboys defense has surrendered the second-fewest pass plays of 20-plus yards. Most impressively, top corner Orlando Scandrick has given up a mere 9.9 yards per catch. Given the difficult road environment, staunch opponent and QB uncertainties, Jackson could be in for a quiet night. 
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 64 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 9.4 fantasy points 

Larry Fitzgerald, Ari, WR (62%)
Matchup: vs. Phi
Eight Pro Bowls. Six 1,000-yard seasons. 88 career touchdowns. There are few players in the NFL's 92-year history who have made a bigger splash at the wide receiver position than Fitzgerald. Unstoppable during the Kurt Warner years and a consummate pro when Kevin Kolb tanked the franchise, he's produced sound, consistent numbers for nearly a decade. Unfortunately, the 31-year-old isn't the same stallion he used to be. Currently the No. 64 wideout in Fantasyland on a per game basis, he's monumentally underachieved. He's hit pay-dirt only once and averaged an uncharacteristic 47.1 yards per game. He's still a physically imposing weapon, but the slot man isn't gaining separation from defenders, forcing Carson Palmer to look elsewhere. He's on pace for just 96 targets, which would be the lowest of his career. Philly presents a ripe opportunity to regain owner confidence. Cary Williams and friends have yielded the sixth-most fantasy points to WRs. However, linebackers Trent Cole and Connor Barwin have done an excellent job assisting DBs in the short-field, an area where Fitz typically operates. Because the Eagles are most exploitable on the outside, Michael Floyd and John Brown could be in for profitable days, leaving Fitzgerald fans vexed once again. 
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 53 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 9.1 fantasy points
