2013-11-06

Ben Roethlisberger, Pit, QB (20%)
Matchup: vs. Buf
Wallowing in the basement of the AFC North is a surprising twist for one of the most successful franchises of the past decade. An ancient defense combined with inconsistencies on offense are the primary reasons for the reversal of fortune. Still, thrust into several come-from-behind situations, Big Ben has benefited from his defense's shoddy play. Averaging 291.3 passing yards per game, he's on pace for a career-high 616 pass attempts and 4,660 passing yards. Given the uncertainty at QB for Buffalo, Pittsburgh may actually dominate its Week 10 opponent, but it should build a substantial early lead by leaning on No. 7's arm. The Bills have allowed 55 pass plays of 15-plus yards, the fifth-most in the NFL. Specific to signal callers, they've also given up 267.1 passing yards per game and 20 vertical touchdowns, the most in the league. In nine games only Brandon Weeden and Alex Smith failed to record multi-TD performances against them. Off his second 400-yard game of the year, Big Ben should again showcase a fiery hand.
Fearless Forecast: 288 passing yards, 2 passing touchdowns, 0 interceptions, 4 rushing yards, 22.8 fantasy points

Andre Brown, NYG, RB (11%)
Matchup: vs. Oak
Fully recovered from his second leg fracture in as many years, Brown returns to a club desperate to establish consistency on the ground. Brandon Jacobs and Peyton Hillis did a commendable job filling the void for injured starter David Wilson, but it's clear they were merely keeping the seat warm for Brown. Yes, it's true he would probably shatter a femur jumping into a pool of plastic balls, but he's undeniably the most talented runner currently on the Giants' roster. He's explosive, elusive and versatile, a legit three-down option. Recall a season ago, he broke seven runs of 15-plus yards on just 73 attempts. Brown told the Newark Star-Ledger Monday, he was 'eased' back into practice Monday, but it would be no stretch to think he grips the pigskin roughly 15-17 times Sunday. The Raiders have given up a bland 3.70 yards per carry to RBs on the year, but they've allowed at least four receptions to RB1s in four straight. Off a butt-whipping of epic proportions, Oakland is likely to get pounded by yet another NFC East foe. Roll the dice in deeper leagues.
Fearless Forecast: 14 carries, 63 rushing yards, 4 receptions, 19 receiving yard, 1 touchdown, 17.2 fantasy points

Shonn Greene, Ten, RB (6%)
Matchup: vs. Jax
R2D2 moving on a busted wheel. That's the image that reminds me of Trent Richardson's Greene's play over the past couple seasons. Though snail-like and generally mediocre at his previous stop (3.9 yards per carry), the thick-bodied rusher proved effective at times over the past two in the Big Apple, logging consecutive 1,000-yard campaigns, an output that gained an admirer in Nashville. Prior to Week 9 Mike Munchak boldly declared Greene, who had not seen action since Week 1, would receive 15 carries per game moving forward. He didn't quite shoulder that heavy of a load against the Rams, but his 66 total yards and a score on 10 touches rewarded owners who listened. Chris Johnson is entrenched as the lead dog, but Greene should continue to reprise the LenDale White role, functioning as the club's primary short-yardage and goal-line option. Matched against the repellent Jags, who rank No. 1 in most fantasy points yielded to RBs (10 rush TDs allowed) , he should see plenty of action in what should be a one-sided affair. Start him with the utmost confidence at the FLEX in 12-team and deeper leagues.
Fearless Forecast: 15 carries, 67 rushing yards, 1 receptions, 5 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 13.9 fantasy points

Lance Moore, NO, WR (24%)
Matchup: vs. Dal
In a socialist offense where the love is spread nearly evenly, it's extremely difficult to predict exactly who will produce the most fantasy bang week-in, week-out, outside Jimmy Graham of course. However, in a matchup where everyone but rubbish pile Marques Colston has robust odds of exploding, Moore is a good bet to finish well-inside the WR top-30. Returning from a wrist injury two weeks ago, the crafty veteran rekindled his role as Drew Brees' money man underneath. Against the Bills and Jets he enticed 14 targets catching nine passes for 104 yards and a touchdown. With Colston (knee) and Darren Sproles (concussion) ailing, he could attract double-digit looks for the second straight week. Shown time and time again this season, a one-armed man could dissect Dallas' defense. No secondary has allowed more 15-plus yard pass plays. Orlando Scandrick has executed well, conceding just 8.6 yards per catch to his assignments, but Brandon Carr and especially Morris Claiborne have been overly generous. Combined the paltry pair have given up a 60.5 catch%age and 15.2 yards per catch to their assignments. In a Sunday night clash destined to have a multitude of fantasy scorgasms, Sir Lance-a-lot is sure to sit at the head of the round-table.
Fearless Forecast: 6 receptions, 78 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 18.3 fantasy points

Garrett Graham, Hou, TE (10%)
Matchup: at Ari
White-hot rookie QB under center? Check. Starting gig? Bingo. Ripe matchup? Hell (expletive) yes. Among the third class of tight ends, Graham could have the biggest day. He hasn't blown the doors off the joint with Case Keenum under center (7-84-0 the past two weeks), but he's solicited a healthy 14 targets during that stretch. This week, that number could spike significantly. On the fantasy highway, the Cardinals have pulled off to the side of the road and allowed numerous tight ends to race by them. Everyone from Jimmy Graham to Zach Miller has compiled fruitful production against the desert D, many of those even with Darryl Washington on the field. In total, TEs have been targeted 10.8 times per game racking 89.6 yards per game and eight touchdowns against Arizona equal to the most fantasy points surrendered to the position (by a wide margin). With Andre Johnson, off a spectacular 9-229-3 performance, the likely focus of Todd Bowles' defensive game-plan, Graham is sure to clean-up, particularly against zone coverage. Consider him an upside TE1 in Week 10.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 49 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 14.6 fantasy points

Santana Moss, Was, WR (4%), SHOCKER SPECIAL
Matchup: vs. Min
Against a decimated Vikings secondary, big numbers could come from Washington's smallest package. Though the 34-year-old is a shell of the 93-1115-6 receiver he was three short years ago, he isn't entirely washed up. He's still quick off breaks, sports fairly reliable hands and is troublesome versus zone coverage. In his past five games, he's attracted just 15 total targets, a clear afterthought compared to Pierre Garcon and Jordan Reed. But the Vikings have been overly generous to slot receivers this year, a weakness RGIII will likely take advantage of. Corner Josh Robinson, who typically shadows the position, has surrendered an 86.4 catch%age and 127.3 QB rating to his assignments this year. Overall, slot machines have averaged 7.7 targets and 62.4 yards per game versus the Vikes this season. Last week was no exception. Tony Romo connected with short-field option Cole Beasley six times for 68 yards against Minnesota. Admittedly, most PPR zealots would rather receive a knock on the door from Richie Incognito than trust a well-aged receiver in the twilight of his career, but for those in dire straits, the veteran is worth a long look.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 50 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 14.7 fantasy points

