2013-09-19

Tom Brady, NE, QB (82%)
Matchup: vs. TB
Call the CDC. Reported cases of the 'dropsies' are on the rise in New England. For the first time in recorded history, even Brady's staunchest haters feel bad for him. Down Danny Amendola and Rob Gronkowski, the once unstoppable Pats offense has slammed into a brick wall. As seen in last week's deplorable effort versus the Jets, rookies Kenbrell Thompkins and Aaron Dobson are angering No. 12, for good reason. The dastardly duo have run circuitous routes and combined for four dropped passes. If not for Julian Edelman, Brady would be in the lower-echelon of QB2s. Unfortunately, he could venture into that territory this week against the Buccaneers. Likely without Gronk and with Darrelle Revis expected to shadow Edelman most of the game, another sub 15-point fantasy performance is in the offing. Against Geno Smith and Drew Brees, the Bucs surrendered a lowly 6.8 yards per attempt while also forcing three interceptions. Better days are ahead for Tom Terrific, but until Gronk and Amendola return, lukewarm numbers should be anticipated.
Fearless Forecast: 24-39, 248 passing yards, 1 passing touchdown, 1 interception, 15.4 fantasy points

Maurice Jones-Drew, Jax, RB (58%)
Matchup: at Sea
Speaking bluntly, I would rather be trapped in a small car full of psychotic clowns than trust MJD against the league's stingiest defense. And that's saying something. Next to Sharknados, circus performers caked with face make-up are the most frightening entities on Earth. It's been tough sledding for the Oompha Loompah thus far. Through two games, one against what was deemed a favorable matchup at Oakland, he's tallied a wretched 2.88 yards per carry. Now dealing with a tender ankle, a setback that isn't expected to sideline him this week in Seattle, he's only sliding deeper and deeper into the pit of fantasy hell. Against a 'Hawks front that absolutely dominated the line of scrimmage last week against the Niners, limiting Frank Gore to only 16 yards on nine carries, he will again find little breathing room. The Jags offensive line, which was expected to improve after adding top pick Luke Joeckel in the draft, continues to execute poorly. According to Pro Football Focus, the Jags line ranks inside the bottom ten in run-blocking. Unless you're a masochist, bench MJD. Keep in mind, Jacksonville is a 20-point dog according to Vegas.
Fearless Forecast: 14 carries, 46 rushing yards, 1 reception, 5 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 5.8 fantasy points

Darren McFadden, Oak, RB (70%)
Matchup: at Den
It's a miracle A) DMC ranks top-10 among fantasy RBs and B) His lower extremities are still intact. I have to give credit where credit is due, the lampooned rusher is getting the last laugh, for now. Thought to be a major weakness, the Raiders offensive line, down Jared Veldheer and Menelik Watson, has performed admirably, ranking No. 13 in run-blocking according to Pro Football Focus. As a result, McFadden has burst through wide lanes, run hard downhill and racked ample yards after contact. He's notched 4.9 yards per carry and ranks fifth in YACO among RBs. The Broncos, however, are an extremely difficult matchup. Surprisingly, they've stonewalled opposing rushing attacks without Von Miller. Hole plunger Kevin Vickerson has done a marvelous job sniffing out the run, ranking top-10 in stops per PFF. Overall, RBs have averaged a despicable 2.0 yards per carry against Denver. Yes, DMC will contribute appreciable production in the pass game, but in what should be a terribly lopsided affair, expect only a tepid outcome.
Fearless Forecast: 16 carries, 54 rushing yards, 4 receptions, 23 receiving yards, 10.7 fantasy points

James Jones, GB, WR (61%)
Matchup: at Cin
After a week filled with Krispy Kremes, the Packers' seesaw used and abused Washington, arguably the league's worst secondary, in Week 3. Targeted a career-high 12 times, he grabbed 11 receptions for 178 yards. No doubt, it was a standout performance, but given Jones' inconsistent nature and the unappealing matchup, don't expect a splashy encore. Unless your name is Jordy Nelson, the pendulum constantly swings in Green Bay's socialist offense. The Bengals secondary very quietly is one of the league's best. Terrance Newman, Pacman Jones and especially Leon Hall, have held their own to start the year. The latter corner ranks No. 13 in pass coverage according to PFF, allowing a 50.0 catch rate. Jones was a fixture inside the red-zone a season ago, leading the team in targets with 19, but taking a backseat to Randall Cobb, Jordy and Jermichael Finley in that area of the field thus far – he has two RZ tgts through games – another 10-plus TD season seems farfetched, assuming the trend continues. For the reasons mentioned above, don't bank on another top-20 week.
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 58 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 8.8 fantasy points

Antonio Brown, Pit, WR (68%)
Matchup: vs. Chi
Unleashing his inner diva Monday night against Cincinnati, Brown vocalized his frustrations with Ben Roethlisberger in a heated exchange on the sidelines. And he didn't stop there. According to the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, the 'seething' wideout also tongue-lashed offensive coordinator Todd Haley, complaining he wasn't seeing enough targets. When Jerricho Cotchery receives the same number of looks, he has a point. Brown's outward plea may award him 10-plus targets this week, but expect pedestrian numbers against one of league's nastiest defenses. Though torched by A.J. Green Week 1, the Bears currently rank No. 6 in pass coverage. Corners Tim Jennings and Peanut Tillman have yielded an impressive 76.1 QB rating through two games. Add that to the Steelers' offensive line woes and it should be a long night for a franchise on the brink of dropping to 0-3. Unless Pittsburgh rectifies its issues soon (e.g. Throw Haley in the Monongahela), Brown will continue to be a largely undependable WR, even in 12-team three-WR leagues.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 56 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 9.4 fantasy points
