2014-12-10

Russell Wilson, Sea, QB (50 percent started)
Matchup: vs. SF
Russell, please stop talking directly to my television screen. You're not Ferris Bueller and I'm not your "champ." Now that we have that understanding, I want to make it abundantly clear, I admire your skills as a football player. You're incredibly cunning, accurate and multidimensional, a certifiable dreamboat for fantasy purposes. What you accomplished last week in Philly (263-2-0-48-1) almost bounced me in two leagues. Well-played. However, I'm betting Pete Carroll and Darrell Bevell encourage you to take a more conservative approach in your rematch this week with San Francisco. Yes, the Niners are falling apart in most facets, but they continue to exhibit a stingy defense. Excluding your mediocre fantasy performance against them Thanksgiving night (236-1-0-35), only five signal-callers have eclipsed the 20-point threshold against them. Overall, QBs are netting a mere 6.68 yards per attempt against San Fran. Specifically, corners Chris Culliver and Perrish Cox, combined, are yielding an impressive 76.4 QB rating on the year. You're a master of improvisation and are riding a fiery streak, but this week, champ, you'll be instructed to feed the Beast, Marshawn Lynch. 
Fearless Forecast: 20-29, 227 passing yards, 1 passing touchdown, 1 interception, 29 rushing yards, 17.3 fantasy points

Rashad Jennings, NYG, RB (53 percent started)
Matchup: vs. Was
There might have been no bigger Jennings advocate in the preseason than yours truly. If I bumped into him under the mistletoe, I would definitely plant a sloppy smooch. That's how deep my love is. Battling through an ankle injury, Jennings played only sparingly last week against Tennessee. Netting just 18 snaps, he totaled an unavailing 23 yards on three touches. It was rookie Andre Williams who inflicted the damage, flattening Titans en route to a banner fantasy day. However, despite the veteran's unproductive afternoon, his cameo was encouraging. So for this week he's practiced in full, a positive sign he'll tote his usual 18-22 touch workload Sunday. Still, it's smart to express apprehension. From top-to-bottom Washington is a broken organization. Santa needs to fill Dan Snyder's stocking with competence. However, the one area the Redskins have excelled in is run defense. Jim Haslett's 3-4 has bottled up several high-profiled backs, including Jennings in Week 4 (14 touches, 52 yards). In total, it's surrendered the fourth-fewest fantasy points to RBs, allowing just 3.79 yards per carry and seven touchdowns in 13 games. Throw in Williams' goal-line poach factor and my summer crush is sure to break hearts. Give me LeGarrette Blount (vs. Mia), Joique Bell (vs. Min) or Latavius Murray (at KC) over him. 
Fearless Forecast: 15 carries, 61 rushing yards, 4 receptions, 20 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 11.1 fantasy points 

Eddie Lacy, GB, RB (96 percent started)
Matchup: at Buf
Undoubtedly, the plus-sized back, after a horrendous start, has earned his Christmas cookies. Largely due to an oppressive early season slate, he slipped out of the starting block ranking No. 54 in per-game average from Weeks 1-3. Since then Green Bay's locomotive has picked up steam. In his last 10 contests, he totaled 4.8 yards per carry and 17.4 fantasy points per game, the sixth-best mark among RBs. The consensus top-five pick, as advertised, has trucked over would-be tacklers. In Marshawn Lynch fashion, he's gained nearly 60 percent of his yards after contact. Surprisingly, he's also delivered consistent results as a receiver, reeling in close to three catches per game. Point blank, unlike Mark Ingram and Trent Richardson before him, the former 'Bama back has lived up to the mammoth expectations. This week, however, Lacy may be more mouse than mastodon. Limited by a bruised hip he could surrender more touches than usual to James Starks. The matchup, too, is very unappealing. Thanks to a TD hat-trick, C.J. Anderson was a fantasy juggernaut against the Bills last week. On 21 grips, he averaged a ghastly 2.76 yards per carry. Including the Bronco, only four RBs have achieved "Flame" status vs. Buffalo. Overall, the Bills are giving up a lowly 3.76 yards per carry to rushers. Lacy is a rolling block of cheddar, but in light of his injury and based on the opponent, underachievement is very possible. Similar to C.J. last week, he'll need a couple wide receiver tackles inside the five to enhance his fantasy totals. 
Fearless Forecast: 14 carries, 48 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 15 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 8.6 fantasy points

Josh Gordon, Cle, WR (74 percent started)
Matchup: vs. Cin
Since his activation three weeks ago, the former automobile salesman has been a real lemon. He burst back on the fantasy scene in Atlanta steering his way to eight catches for 120 yards. Sadly since then, he's slammed on the brakes, bottoming out last week catching a measly two passes for 15 yards against the Vontae Davis-less Colts. Explanations ranging from lack of conditioning to questionable route running to poor playbook knowledge have all been bandied about. Thanks for rewarding our patience, Josh. Allegedly, the Browns were considering a workload reduction entering last Sunday, but his 54-of-68 snaps seen in Week 14 implies that idea was pure poppycock. Now enters the great unknown, Johnny Manziel. Though I sincerely believe the "midget" will eventually silence his critics, his first task is a tall one. Cincinnati, which has allowed a league-low 14 passing touchdowns, is no patsy when it comes to pass defense. Corner Terrance Newman has yielded just 9.8 yards per catch. On the year, only seven WRs have notched 10-plus points against the Bengals. Another eight-plus targets are in order and Manziel is a more accurate passer than Brian Hoyer, but given the opponent and entire situation, the Brown likely whimpers. 
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 66 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 10.4 fantasy points 

A.J. Green, Cin, WR (94 percent started)
Matchup: at Cle
Sometimes guys simply have your number. That's certainly the case for Green when it comes to Joe Haden. The Cleveland corner is very familiar with the All-Pro. He understands his strengths, weaknesses and general tendencies. As a result, Green has TOTALED 13 receptions for 81 yards and no scores against him in their past three clashes. Overall, the receiver has averaged an underwhelming 60.7 yards per game in seven career Buckeye State battles. Horse tranquilizers couldn't have stopped Green last week against Pittsburgh. On 15 targets, he hauled in 11 receptions for a career-best 224 yards. But the Haden history, coupled with the DB's recent sensational play (43.1 catch percentage, 46.8 QB rating allowed since Week 9), should understandably raise owner concern. The guy has stuck to assignments like ineptitude to the Jets. Given the scouting report, it's entirely conceivable Mike Evans (at Car), Kenny Stills (at Chi) or even Jordan Matthews (vs. Dal) outpace him. 
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 59 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 8.9 fantasy points 
