2014-10-15

Carson Palmer, Ari, QB (6%)
Matchup: at Oak
Just a few days ago, the veteran's status was in limbo. A painful nerve condition in his throwing shoulder, which triggered burning sensations up and down his arm, kept him under wraps. However, after undergoing a successful "experimental treatment" in a part of the country known for such exercises (Denver), he surprisingly returned to the lineup and experienced no repercussions. Against Washington, he completed 63.6 percent of his passes for 250 yards and two touchdowns. Most importantly, he highly involved both Michael Floyd and Larry Fitzgerald, a tandem that floundered with Drew Stanton and briefly Logan Thomas at the helm. Operating behind an improved offensive line, Palmer has played well in two games. He's delivered strikes often downfield (5-for-11 on passes beyond 20 yards), excelled on play-action (111.1 QB Rating) and functioned admirably under pressure. His resulting 23.2 fantasy points per game (vs. SD and Wash) ranks top-seven at the position. This week, another QB1 level performance is a strong likelihood. The Raiders, deceivingly stout against the pass entering Week 6, were exposed by Philip Rivers, surrendering 313 yards and three touchdowns. To be fair, T.J. Carrie has executed laudably (54.7 QB rating allowed), but Carlos Rogers and Tarell Brown, who've given up 41 catches on 50 targets, certainly have not. Palmer, returning to the Black Hole for the first time since he last played there in 2012, lands a stinging blow. 
Fearless Forecast: 25-38, 269 passing yards, 2 passing touchdowns, 0 interceptions, 6 rushing yards, 22.1 fantasy points

Justin Forsett, Bal, RB (59%)
Matchup: vs. Atl
Over his seven-year career, Forsett, despite being productive as a starter, has been constantly questioned. His diminutive stature and slender frame led many to label him a change-of-pace rusher. However, the former Cal standout continues to silence his critics. He remains involved in a three-back rotation with Bernard Pierce and Lorenzo Taliaferro, but without a doubt the little guy has been the most consistently effective. Forsett would probably find it difficult busting through a pile of leaves, but his shiftiness and speed through the hole should not be underestimated. Among eligible RBs, he ranks top-15 in elusive rating (46.6) and breakaway percentage (45.5) according to Pro Football Focus. A top-20 rusher since taking on an expanded role in Week 2, he could penetrate the position's top-10 in Week 7. Atlanta is a sieve up front. No defense has allowed more fantasy points to the position. In total, RBs have rolled up 190.7 total yards per game and 11 scores against it with eight RBs achieving "Flame" status. On 14-18 touches, he lights up the virtual scoreboard. 
Fearless Forecast: 14 carries, 71 rushing yards, 4 receptions, 23 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 18.4 fantasy points

James Starks, GB, RB (3%)
Matchup: vs. Car
Unlike some head coaches (Hint: One likes to wear hoodies, the other rhymes with Chisenfunt), Mike McCarthy is a coach of his word. For the past couple weeks he's maintained his commitment to a two-back rotation. After last Sunday's near dead-even split between Eddie Lacy (39 snaps) and Starks (38), the coach obviously isn't waffling. Roughly 10-14 touches per game should be the norm for No. 44 rest of season. When toting the rock, Starks has displayed impressive power and burst. In what will be a surprise to most, he's recorded almost the same yards after contact rate (61.8) as Lacy (62.1). Sunday he could improve on that number. Carolina, defensively, has done a complete 180 from last fall. Luke Kuechly continues to rank highly against the run (No. 12 among all LBs), but going from strong to squishy, the Panthers, collectively, have conceded 5.5 yards per carry, 170 total yards per game and eight touchdowns to RBs. Only Atlanta has given up more fantasy points per game to the position. With two teams on bye, most owners have numerous options to employ at RB. Still, Starks is a FLEXY sexy option in almost any format. 
Fearless Forecast: 13 carries, 62 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 9 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 14.6 fantasy points 

James Jones, Oak, WR (13%)
Matchup: vs. Ari
Quite possibly the MVP of the Rodney Dangerfield All-Stars, Jones is arguably the most disrespected commodity in the entirety of fantasy sports. If he suited up for a higher profiled club and caught passes from a proven passer, he would be coveted. Instead, owners, even those who repeatedly trot out the maddening likes of Keenan Allen, Cordarrelle Patterson and Percy Harvin, continue to give him the cold shoulder. Dumb. Whether PPR or standard, Jones has churned out WR2 numbers in 12-team leagues. Smelling like a rose in garbage time, he's tallied a near identical line as DeAndre Hopkins in one fewer game (35-26-328-3). Equally impressive, his 78.8 catch percentage ranks No. 5 among wideouts with at least 200 snaps. Arizona's ballyhooed secondary has failed. Rolled in flour and dropped in oil, Patrick Peterson and Antonio Cromartie are extra crispy. On the year, the duo has surrendered 17.34 yards per catch and a 117.8 QB rating. Yes Andre Holmes' role is growing and putting trust in a rookie quarterback's hands is always a risky proposition, but if Derek Carr can carry over momentum from last week's breakout, Jones crosses the chalk for the fourth time in six games. 
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 68 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 16.5 fantasy points 

Sammy Watkins, Buf, WR (43%)
Matchup: vs. Min
From a pure talent standpoint Watkins is unequivocally the cream of this year's rookie wide receiver crop. His NASCAR wheels, ridiculous body control, ball-tracking skills and tacky hands should give defensive backs nightmares for years to come. Largely because E.J. Manuel would overthrow a Wampa from 10 yards out, Watkins played unevenly out of the gate. Kyle Orton, inserted into the lineup two weeks ago, also hasn't helped him establish consistency. With only a pair of touchdowns and two games of 40-plus yards to his name, he ranks outside the position's top-36. Despite the rollercoaster ride, Watkins is a strong play in Week 7. Minny DBs Xavier Rhodes and Josh Robinson have performed admirably in coverage, but if Watkins matches up with Captain Munnerlyn, he's sure to sink the corner's ship. Targeted 22 times, Munnerlyn has yielded 16 catches and a 137.9 QB rating. Overall, seven wideouts have posted "Flame" worthy numbers against Minnesota this year. Sensational Sammy will be the eighth. 
Fearless Forecast: 6 receptions, 77 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 18.2 fantasy points 

Josh Hill, NO, TE (0%), SHOCKER SPECIAL
Matchup: at Det
The Idaho State product could steal the show this week in Detroit. With Jimmy Graham expected to nurse a shoulder injury for the next 2-3 weeks, Hill will be called upon to fill Shaq-sized shoes. In spurts the backup has looked effective. His strong route-running abilities, huge mitts, athleticism and deceptive speed, have occasionally stunned opponents. Targeted only eight times, he's reeled in seven passes for 112 yards and two touchdowns. Ben Watson, a more adept run-blocker, has seen more action (170-to-87 snaps), but clearly the second-year weapon is a better vertical talent. Detroit has defended the pass with uncharacteristic success. The Lions rank top-five in lowest allowed YPA, passing yards and fantasy points to QBs. Major props to Darius Slay and Rashean Mathis. Though they've given up few explosive pass plays, tight ends have chipped away underneath. Larry Donnell (5-56-1), Greg Olsen (6-72-0), Andrew Quarless (4-43-1) and Jace Amaro (5-58-0) each posted useful PPR days against them. Off the bye, Hill steps out of the shadows. 
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 50 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 14.0 fantasy points 

