2009-11-19

Josh Freeman(notes), TB, QB (Noise QB Rank: 11, Start: 12-plus team leagues, 2% started)

Matchup: vs. NO

Scoreboards haven't spontaneously exploded in the rookie's presence, but in just two starts he's accomplished more than quarterbacks in destitute pigskin lands Oakland, Cleveland and Fitzpatrick Heights. Though he's completed just 50.8 percent of his attempts, Freeman has exhibited a fearless attitude. His smooth mechanics and astute pocket awareness point to Pro Bowl caliber seasons ahead. Over the past two weeks he's averaged a respectable 14.3 points per game in standard formats, netting 200.5 passing and 27.5 rushing yards per game with four touchdowns. That output could rise this week against a New Orleans defense minus starting corners Tracy Porter(notes) and Jabari Greer(notes). Their absence combined with Tampa's defensive inefficiencies and the expected return of Antonio Bryant(notes) suggest Freeman could be leaned on heavily. The Saints have allowed 249.8 passing yards and five touchdowns to gunslingers since Week 6. A Shocker Special worthy performance just outside the QB top 10 is fathomable.

Fearless Forecast: 19-33, 217 passing yards, 2 touchdowns, 1 interception, 24 rushing yards, 19 fantasy points

Kevin Smith(notes), Det, RB (Noise RB Rank: 12, Start: All Leagues, 60% started)

Matchup: vs. Cle

The Browns are a disgrace to all canine species, even yappy teacup yorkies. On the season, no team has been run on more than Cleveland. Enemy rushers have pounded the interior an average of 31.1 times per game through nine weeks. On those carries, they've caged the Chihuahuas netting 180.8 total yards per game and 13 total touchdowns. Only Buffalo's opposition has had more success. For The Director, the Lions' pliable offensive line has cramped his scoring style – he hasn't crossed the chalk since Week 4. He also hasn't eclipsed the century mark in six straight. But because Matthew Stafford(notes) may actually have oodles of time to connect with Calvin Johnson(notes) downfield, Smith should see a few wide lanes to jet through. Consider him must start material in all formats.

Fearless Forecast: 17 carries, 73 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 15 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 14 fantasy points

Beanie Wells(notes), Ari, RB (Noise RB Rank: 16, Start: All Leagues, 40% started)

Matchup: at StL

Wells is a rhinoceros dressed in medieval armor driving a battering ram. The rookie's ferocious running style and growing confidence have opened the eyes of many in Fantasyland. The former Buckeye has earned increased reps in recent weeks, which he's excelled with. Since Week 6 he's averaged 69.8 total yards per game and totaled three touchdowns. Tim Hightower(notes) will still rack most touches inside the 5, but it's clear Ken Whisenhunt is committed to establishing a hardnosed power running game. Wells should again net roughly 14-17 touches this week in St. Louis. The repulsive Rams have surrendered 4.8 yards per carry, 179.8 total yards per game and seven scores to rushers over the past five weeks, equal to the second-most fantasy points allowed. Expect another marquee effort.

Fearless Forecast: 16 carries, 81 rushing yards, 1 reception, 6 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 14 fantasy points

Steve Slaton(notes), Hou, RB (Noise RB Rank: 15, Start: All Leagues, 37% started)

Matchup: vs. Ten

Reading between the lines it's very apparent Gary Kubiak wants Slaton to reestablish his position as the team's best back. Over the bye week, The Slasher worked extensively to solve his menacing case of fumblitis watching video of Tiki Barber(notes), who conquered the affliction several years ago. Earlier this week, Arian Foster(notes) was promoted from the practice squad and is expected to get reps alongside Slaton, Ryan Moats(notes) and Chris Brown. Obviously, Houston's backfield is crowded, but the incumbent's diligence will be rewarded. Assuming Bud Adams' cretaceous-aged "birds" aren't a distraction; expect the former Mountaineer to tote roughly 60 percent of the workload with much success. The Titans have yielded a ridiculous 7.9 yards per carry, 187.3 total yards per game and five scores to rushers over the past five weeks, equal to the fifth-most fantasy points allowed. Your chances of buying low are rapidly shrinking.

Fearless Forecast: 13 carries, 44 rushing yards, 4 receptions, 27 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 13 fantasy points


.
Steve Breaston(notes), Ari, WR (Noise WR Rank: 22, Start: All Leagues, 58% started)
Matchup: at StL

In terms of recent production, the top-heavy Breaston is the Katherine Heigl of fantasy wideouts. Quietly over the past five weeks he's splashed pay-dirt four times averaging 6.2 targets, 4.6 receptions and 60.4 yards per game, the 11th-best output at his position. Kurt Warner(notes) has threaded footballs through pinholes of late. Given the accommodating matchup against his old club, the Sultan of Stubble should have little trouble spreading the love to Larry Fitzgerald(notes), Anquan Boldin(notes) and Breaston. Because offenses have pounded the Rams between the hashmarks, only four receivers have eclipsed the 70-yard mark against them since Week 6. But despite the Cardinals' advancing ground game, they're still a pass-first team. Expect the recipient of Warner's 199th career TD pass to again post sneaky good numbers.

Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 66 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 13 fantasy points

Lee Evans(notes), Buf, WR (Noise WR Rank: 21, Start: All Leagues, 34% started)

Matchup: at Jac

For Terrell Owens(notes) supporters, the phrase "getting Fitzpatricked" is the real-life equivalent of probing-by-cattle-prod. However, for Evans backers, the phrase has a more positive meaning. The inconsistent wideout has done some of his finest work this season with the backup behind center. From Weeks 6-8, the combo connected for 11 receptions for 172 yards and two scores (22 targets). With Skeletor (Dick Jauron) no longer a threat to Eternia, new head coach Perry Fewell has made it clear he wants to feature the Fred Jackson(notes)-led Wildcat more often. Despite the Bills' presumed shift to a more ground-centered style, Evans should still pay an appreciable dividend this week in Jacksonville. The Jags have allowed five TDs and four 70-yard-plus performances to receivers over the past five weeks.

Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 57 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 11 fantasy points

Donnie Avery(notes), StL, WR (Noise WR Rank: 25, Start: All WR3 Leagues, 14% started)

Matchup: vs. Ari

In the Rams' surprisingly competitive clash with New Orleans last week, Avery was an unforeseen fantasy stud totaling 67 yards and two touchdowns. Finally healthy, the fleet-footed wideout should continue his recent run of success. For the most part, Arizona's secondary has been rocky this season. Cards corners have conceded the seventh-most fantasy points to WRs. 'Zona is an aggressive bunch who relishes ramping up pressure on the pocket. Under normal circumstances, Marc Bulger(notes) would be swallowed whole by the blitz, but the Rams' offensive line has made significant strides in pass protection in recent weeks. Last week against New Orleans, the QB was sacked just twice. If the Rams can continue to hold their blocks, Avery's chances of a repeat performance are better than you think

Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 51 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 11 fantasy points

Kellen Winslow(notes), TB, TE (Noise TE Rank: 6, Start: All Leagues, 60% started)

Matchup: vs. NO

Striving to "be the best, plain and simple," Winslow has flourished with an inexperienced quarterback at the wheel. Over the past two weeks the former motorcycle stuntman has attracted 16 targets, catching 11 passes for 159 yards and a touchdown, his best two-game stretch this season. Another banner effort could be on tap against a stiff Saints unit. Through nine weeks, no oversized target has scored on New Orleans. But as Brent Celek(notes) (8-104 Week 2) and Tony Gonzalez(notes) (6-89 Week 8) proved earlier this year, talented tight ends who are heavily involved in their team's gameplan can pierce Gregg Williams' unit. Anticipate another double-digit point performance from the budding Winslow.

Fearless Forecast: 6 receptions, 74 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 13 fantasy points
