2009-11-19

Philip Rivers(notes), SD, QB (Noise QB Rank: 12, Bench: 8-10 team leagues, 87% started)

Matchup: at Den

This week the raging Rivers calms. San Diego's slinger has played brilliantly in recent weeks, threading the needle with incredible precision. But on-field accuracy hasn't necessarily translated to giant fantasy gains. Since Week 6 he ranks 10th in points per game at his position, averaging 246.2 yards per game with 10 touchdowns. In his last meeting with Denver five weeks ago, he notched a mediocre 274 yards and a touchdown. This time around, the conclusion could be blander. After dropping three straight, the Broncos are desperate to regain supremacy in the AFC West. The Chargers will likely lean on LT early to set up play-action, but if the ground game stalls, San Diego could struggle vertically. The Broncos' high-pressure blitz scheme may also hinder Rivers' statistical performance. Only sit Rivers if you have dependable alternatives, but the tea leaves suggest a vanilla effort. Denver has yielded just 218.8 passing yards per game in its past five contests.

Fearless Forecast: 23-32, 248 passing yards, 1 touchdown, 2 interceptions, 14 fantasy points

Thomas Jones(notes), NYJ, RB (Noise RB Rank: 20, NO BENCH, 88% started)

Matchup: at NE

Aging with the grace of Andie MacDowell (She's really 51?), Jones has greatly exceeded his Round 4 draft day value, especially of late. Over his past five contests, the 31-year-old has averaged 5.3 yards per carry, 139.5 total yards per game and scored three times, good for the sixth-best output among rushers. New England has been somewhat friendly to RBs in recent weeks, surrendering 4.6 yards per carry since Week 6. But despite giving up occasional big runs, only two rushers, Ray Rice(notes) and Chris Johnson, have surpassed the 90-yard mark against them. Physically, Jones recently declared he "feels like a rookie." Running behind one of the league's best offensive lines can have that effect. But absent a consistent vertical attack from the Jets, New England will likely suffocate the veteran in Foxboro. Week 2 against the intradivisional foe, Jones totaled just 54 yards on 14 carries.

Fearless Forecast: 21 carries, 89 rushing yards, 1 reception, 4 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 9 fantasy points

Matt Forte(notes), Chi, RB (Noise RB Rank: 22, Bench: 8-10 team leagues, 91% started)

Matchup: vs. Phi

Chicago's ineffectiveness pounding the pigskin is, in Bears fans' eyes, a bigger crisis than the terrifying Eggo shortage that has gripped the nation (What will Mrs. Butterworth do?). Forte's situation is sticky, to say the least. Evident in last week's game in San Fran, the Bears' offensive line is a sieve. Forte finished with a pathetic 41 yards on 20 carries. Fortunately, the former Tulane star saved face with his versatility, catching eight passes for 120 yards. When provided space he's been assertive, racking significant yardage in the passing game. More of the same should be expected this week against Philly. The Eagles, humiliated by LT last week in San Diego, are looking to regain their edge. Over the past five weeks, they've allowed just 3.8 yards per carry to backs, but five touchdowns. Forte will again be an asset as a receiver, making him indispensable in PPR leagues, but another marginal effort in standard formats is on the horizon.

Fearless Forecast: 18 carries, 57 rushing yards, 5 reception, 36 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 9 fantasy points

Ryan Grant(notes), GB, RB (Noise RB Rank: 23, Bench: 8-10 team leagues, 81% started)

Matchup: vs. SF

In the land of artery clogging dairy products, Grant has curdled. Though he's averaged a healthy 4.4 yards per carry average over the past five weeks, he's found the end zone just twice since Week 3. Suffice it to say, the Packers' offensive line has limited his fantasy potential. Against the Niners' formidable front seven, the rusher could again tally sour numbers. Since Week 6, San Fran has surrendered a mere 3.5 yards per carry, 124 total yards per game and four scores to backs. If Aaron Rodgers(notes) is clicking in the passing game early, don't be surprised if Mike McCarthy shies away from the run. Grant is one of the few remaining workhorses still kicking in an era of split backfields. But even with a steady 20-carry diet, he's only proven trustworthy against loose defenses.

Fearless Forecast: 20 carries, 83 rushing yards, 1 receptions, 5 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 8 fantasy points


.
Mike Sims-Walker(notes), Jac, WR (Noise WR Rank: 26, NO BENCH, 83% started)
Matchup: vs. Buf

The Skywalker Show may be deceased, but the Jacksonville upstart is still an Internet sensation. That is, in virtual pigskin circles. Staving off the deadly Darrelle Disease last week in New York, Sims-Walker cracked eggs on the faces of fantasy pundits totaling 49 yards and a touchdown. You'd think we learned our lesson, but the Bills aren't exactly the friendliest of matchups. Glancing at the numbers, most football fans would surmise Buffalo's struggles stopping the run have artificially enhanced its secondary's stoutness. But that's not entirely the case. Safety Jairus Byrd(notes) has been magnificent, totaling seven interceptions this season. Due to Maurice Jones-Drew's(notes) presence, the Jags will focus on the run, stymieing MSW's chances for a noteworthy fantasy day. Keep in mind, the Bills have allowed the second-fewest fantasy points to wideouts since Week 6.

Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 64 receiving yards, 0 touchdown, 6 fantasy points

Greg Jennings(notes), GB, WR (Noise WR Rank: 27, Bench: NO BENCH, 81% started)

Matchup: vs. SF

For those who invested fat coin in Jennings, it's been a frustrating year. Outplayed by ageless teammate Donald Driver(notes), the popular early round pick ranks just 28th among wideouts in overall production. Now bothered by a knee contusion, his value could decline further this week against the Niners. San Fran has occasionally been dissected vertically this year (i.e. Roddy White(notes) Week 5), but the Niners have generally defended the pass well. Over the past five weeks, the Gold Panners have yielded just one touchdown and two 70-yard receiver performances, equal to the seventh-fewest fantasy points allowed. Considering Jennings has netted the 36th-best ppg mark since Week 6, Driver may once again overshadow him.

Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 59 receiving yards, 0 touchdown, 5 fantasy points

Percy Harvin(notes), Min, WR (Noise WR Rank: 38, Bench: 8-12 team leagues, 65% started)

Matchup: vs. Sea

It's perplexing why the majority of fantasy owners continue to support Harvin as an every week start. It's understandable if your league scores favorably for return yards, but in standard formats he's more of the stream-type. Since Week 6, he hasn't registered top 40 numbers. Vikes' fans have clamored for Harvin to see more action, but Brad Childress remains committed to a limited workload. The rookie, who's battled through a shoulder injury, migraine headaches and an unknown sickness, hasn't exactly been healthy. On paper, Harvin's matchup with the Hawks is very enticing. Seattle has conceded the second-most fantasy points to wideouts in their past five contests. But Harvin's limited looks combined with Brett Favre's(notes) mancrush on Sidney Rice(notes) could again push the youngster into the background. Expect another snoozer.

Fearless Forecast: 3 receptions, 47 receiving yards, 0 touchdown, 4 fantasy points

Jason Witten(notes), Dal, TE (Noise TE Rank: 11, Bench: 8-10 team leagues, 83% started)

Matchup: vs. Wash

Because Dallas' ground game has grinded to a halt, Witten, who's grossly underachieved this season, could again remain trapped in the box. The enlarged target humbly admitted earlier this week, the ‘Boys must get the rushing attack back on track, even if it costs him looks. When featured prominently, Witten has done what he's always done, catch everything in sight. But due to the aforementioned ground troubles and Tony Romo's(notes) increased dependability on Roy Williams and Miles Austin(notes), he's become an auxiliary option. On the season he ranks just 17th at his position in points per game. Toss in Washington's No. 4 ranking against tight ends this season, and Witten's star is bound to fade once again.

Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 44 receiving yards, 0 touchdown, 4 fantasy points
