2009-12-17

Tom Brady, NE, QB (92%)
Matchup: at Buf
While TMZ readers anxiously await name news of Brady bundle of joy No. 2, fantasy owners are wondering what happened to the Goldenboy's value. Did witnessing childbirth for a second time permanently damage important parts of his brain? Hindered by myriad injuries (finger, ribs, shoulder), the multi-time Super Bowl champ has barely posted starter-worthy numbers in 12-team leagues over the past four weeks. During that span he's averaged a mere 272.8 yards per game and notched a 4:5 TD:INT split. Accusations of Randy Moss quitting on him last week only complicates matters. Spearheaded by outstanding rookie Jairus Byrd, the Bills secondary is a legit unit. In its past five games, Buffalo has conceded a lowly 188.4 passing yards per game and four touchdowns to passers equal to the fourth-fewest fantasy points. Granted the competition over that stretch was unspectacular (Ten, Jax, Mia, NYJ and KC), but this is the same team that held Drew Brees under 200 yards earlier this year. Brady backers beware.
Fearless Forecast: 20-31, 247 passing yards, 1 touchdown, 2 interceptions, 14 fantasy points

DeAngelo Williams, Car, RB (91%)
Matchup: vs. Min
For DeAngelo, the season-ending injury suffered by Jeff Otah is akin to the President losing a key Secret Service member. As a result, fame-crazed couples and hungry tacklers will surely penetrate the backfield. Another magical late-season run for Williams appears farfetched. Though Matt Moore has performed admirably in relief of Jake Delhomme, defenses continue to overload the box, which has stymied the lineup anchor's contributions. Minnesota can be beaten on the peripheries, but unless Moore stretches the field with Steve Smith an extra safety will likely spy the edges to prevent Williams from busting loose. If Carolina is forced to focus their attack between the tackles it could be a long night. The impenetrable Williams Wall has surrendered just 3.9 yards per carry, 92.6 total yards per game and zero scores to RBs since Week 9. More concerning, the Panthers' bullet hasn't reached the end-zone in four straight. If you have more favorable options (i.e. Arian Foster (at StL), Knowshon Moreno (vs. Oak), Jamaal Charles (vs. Cle)) cage the cat.
Fearless Forecast: 18 carries, 81 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 11 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 9 fantasy points

Pierre Thomas, NO, RB (80%)
Matchup: vs. Dal
The Noise is convinced Sean Payton is Satan with a headset. Even though Thomas has repeatedly proven he's the most talented back on roster, the rascally coach continues to feed Mike Bell, or in last week's case Reggie Bush, near the pylons. It's maddening. Despite the dissing, the PT Bruiser has maintained substantial value, especially in PPR-heavy formats. Over the past five weeks he's averaged 82.9 total yards per game, much of it via the air (14 receptions in last two). Still, his lost red-zone carries combined with an unsavory matchup are ominous indicators. The Cowboys' aggressive, quick frontline has played brilliantly of late limiting backs to just 3.8 yards per carry and 133.6 total yards per game. His yardage totals will again be stout, but unless he breaks a long run somewhere in-between the 20s his overall production will be mediocre.
Fearless Forecast: 13 carries, 49 rushing yards, 5 receptions, 42 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 9 fantasy points

Rashard Mendenhall, Pit, RB (85%)
Matchup: vs. GB
Another Noise mantasy on the lames list? Someone is seeking an open relationship. Mendenhall's value has tanked alongside his team's chances of defending its championship. The well-rounded rusher ranks No. 22 among backs in points per game over the past five weeks, averaging just 3.9 yards per carry and 89.4 total yards per game. His uninspiring effort last week in Cleveland killed many. This week, another playoff-bouncing effort is likely. Under Dom Caper's direction, the Packers' 3-4 defense has performed splendidly for much of the year. On the season, Green Bay has allowed only 3.5 yards per carry to rushers. And over the past five weeks, it has yielded the fewest fantasy points. After showing signs of a turnaround midseason, Pittsburgh's trench execution has relapsed. Few holes have opened. Mendenhall has received more action on third downs, but in the Steelers' last stand, he'll likely play the role of George Armstrong Custer.
Fearless Forecast: 17 carries, 63 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 21 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 8 fantasy points

Hines Ward, Pit, WR (63%)
Matchup: vs. GB
Mike Tomlin's version of "hell" sounds like paradise to the opposition. Pina coladas anyone? Though Ward gutted out a cumbersome hamstring injury in frigid Cleveland last week, he failed to produce even marginal numbers. The Browns blanketed Steelers wideouts for much of the night. Still not close to 100 percent, he will likely log a disappointing point total for the second consecutive week. Only four receivers have eclipsed the 70-yard mark against Charles Woodson and company since Week 9. Ward typically thrives against zone coverage, but Green Bay's dedication to "man" presents a quandary. Keep him active in PPR formats but owners in standard leagues should lean on more favorable alternatives.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 48 receiving yards, 0 touchdown, 4 fantasy points

Sidney Rice, Min, WR (91%)
Matchup: at Car
The chemistry between Rice and Brett Favre continues to percolate. Over the past five weeks, the high-riser has netted 10.2 targets, six receptions and 98 yards per game. Toss in three touchdowns and he's racked the fourth-best per game yield at his position. The Vikings will likely be minus Percy Harvin once again, which will likely draw added attention for Rice. Without the rookie complement last week, he compiled just four catches for 39 yards versus the Bengals, though a touchdown rescued him from Bustville. The Panthers' defensive credo is "bend, don't break." Despite surrendering six 90-yard receiver efforts over the past five weeks, Chris Gamble and his accomplices have only allowed three wideout touchdowns on the year. Rice should tally fair PPR numbers, but don't expect an extraordinary effort in standard leagues.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 56 receiving yards, 0 touchdown, 3 fantasy points

Roddy White, Atl, WR (84%)
Matchup: at NYJ
Rowdy Roddy befriended Darrelle Revis at the Pro Bowl in Hawaii last year saying he and the premier cover corner "chopped it up," a phrase which probably isn't a reference to recreational logging. This week, Revis solely will do the chopping. As discussed repeatedly in this space, the league's most unforgiving Snuggie has limited one Pro Bowl receiver after another. Last week, Antonio Bryant was victimized. On the year, an incredible three receivers have reached the 70-yard mark against the Jets. That's what you call shutdown. Chris Redman will force the ball to White's side regardless of the matchup. The QB has targeted his No. 1 an average of 13 times per game over the past three weeks. But Redman will quickly find out Lito Sheppard, not Revis, should be picked on. White gets owned.
Fearless Forecast: 3 receptions, 21 receiving yards, 0 touchdown, 2 fantasy points

Brent Celek, Phi, TE (79%)
Matchup: vs. SF
Celek's odds of totaling top 10 numbers are in line with Andy Reid's rocking the rim on a Little Tikes hoop. Led by man-eater Patrick Willis, the Niners have conceded only one touchdown to tight ends this season and the sixth-fewest fantasy points. Due to San Francisco's collapsing zone scheme, only Owen Daniels and Dallas Clark have eclipsed the 80-yard mark against them. Magnum P.I. has enticed more red-zone targets than any other TE in the league, netting nearly 33.3 percent of his team's looks. He has also crossed the chalk in five of his past seven games. But due to the uncharitable matchup and his sore back, a points-deprived effort is on the horizon.
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 48 receiving yards, 0 touchdown, 5 fantasy points

