2014-09-25

Cam Newton, Car, QB (63%)
Matchup: at Bal
Cam's wide array of post-game attire has ranged from bowtie to "The Carlton" to, most strangely, Wookiee-inspired sweaters. However, his latest getup, Color Me Badd on top and eccentric Euro art collector on bottom, had many scratching their heads. So does his deflating fantasy production. In his first pair of starts since missing Week 1 with a rib injury, the normally versatile QB has abandoned his running ways. He's completed a praiseworthy 66.7 percent of his attempts for 265.5 passing yards, but totaling a mere 26 ground yards, his new pocket-tied approach has diminished his value. More of the same is on the docket. Newton was very efficient against Detroit and Pittsburgh consistently hitting targets in stride on short and long-range throws. His execution on play-action was especially sterling evident in his 96.6 QB rating in those situations. Still, the Ravens' secondary has been unyielding in the early season. Andy Dalton, Ben Roethlisberger and Brian Hoyer each failed to eclipse 20 fantasy points in standard Yahoo leagues against it. Baltimore has recorded an uncharacteristic three sacks thus far, but Terrell Suggs and friends should collapse the pocket often against a loose O-line that's placed Netwon under pressure 38.3 percent of the time this year. Ultimately, until Newton starts scrambling, he's more QB2 than QB1 in 12-team leagues. 
Fearless Forecast: 21-33, 258 passing yards, 1 passing touchdown, 1 interception, 12 rushing yards, 17.1 fantasy points

Rashad Jennings, NYG, RB (83%)
Matchup: at Was
Roughly six weeks ago, several fanalysts, yours truly NOT included, were screaming to avoid Jennings at all costs. Doubters claimed bruising rookie Andre Williams would dominate goal-line touches and eventually force an RBBC with the supposed 29-year-old plodder. Flash forward to the present day and Jennings has silenced even his harshest critics. The fifth-most value rusher in Fantasyland has averaged 127 total yards per game, gained 52.3 percent of his yards after contact and, most importantly, logged seven carries inside the 10 (Williams none), scoring twice. Though I absolutely adore Jennings and own numerous shares, this week's matchup with Washington is unfriendly. Rushers are performing 61.8 percent below the league average against it. Impenetrable between the tackles, the future Warriors have given up a lowly 2.67 yards per carry and the second-fewest fantasy points to RBs thus far. LeSean McCoy totaled a pathetic 22 yards on 20 attempts against Jim Haslett's 4-3 last week. Nasty. Jennings will get his usual 20-25 touches, but expect only modest results in Week 4. 
Fearless Forecast: 19 carries, 73 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 15 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 11.0 fantasy points

Darren Sproles, Phi, RB (67%)
Matchup: at SF
Incredibly, the Butter Squirrel, who's definitely earned his nuts over the first three weeks of the regular season, has not only outperformed tag-team partner McCoy, he's clotheslined him. Netting an obscene 0.49 fantasy points per snap, the miniature rusher has made the most of his opportunities in Chip Kelly's breakneck offense. Overall, his 19.1 points per game output in PPR settings ranks No. 6 among RBs. No doubt, he's been tremendous, but last week's spoonful of reality will likely be more the norm than the exception. Against a suddenly stingy Washington defense, he accounted for just 50 total yards on five touches. He also played just 21 snaps. Sans Aldon Smith and dealing with injuries in the secondary, San Francisco is in the midst of an identity crisis defensively. The 49ers have given up 22.7 points per game and recorded only four sacks. Still, the unit has done an excellent job bottling up RBs in the flat. DeMarco Murray, Matt Forte and Andre Ellington scraped 25 receiving yards or less against them. Patrick Willis and Michael Wilhoite in particular have done a terrific job chasing down vermin in the open field. Your sell-high window is about to close. 
Fearless Forecast: 4 carries, 15 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 21 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 5.8 fantasy points

Andre Johnson, Hou, WR (78%)
Matchup: vs. Buf
I'm thoroughly convinced Johnson is allergic to the end zone. In his mind, an infectious cocktail of botulism, SARS and Ebola routinely festers in the invisible pool. The man hasn't scored a touchdown in 10 straight games. Though he's remained a valuable PPR commodity, the once unstoppable WR1 has morphed into a mediocre WR3. Still, despite the drop-off in fantasy production, many continue to buy the brand name, trotting him out weekly over upstarts like Kelvin Benjamin, Brandin Cooks and fellow Texan DeAndre Hopkins. Enough with the silliness. He'll likely attract his usual 8-10 targets against Buffalo's beatable secondary, a unit that's conceded the seventh-most fantasy points to wideouts on the young year. Targeted 38 times, Bills DBs Leodis McKelvin, Nickell Robey and Stephen Gilmore have given up 32 receptions (84.2 catch percentage). However, top corner Corey Graham, who will likely lock horns with Johnson often, has been a bright spot yielding 7.6 yards per catch and a 28.5 QB rating, the third-lowest in the league. Another worthwhile PPR line is in the offing, but don't expect him to find a cure for his TD affliction. 
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 68 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 10.5 fantasy points 

Cordarrelle Patterson, Min, WR (85%)
Matchup: vs. Atl
Much to the delight of Vikings fans, it's officially "Teddy Time." Matt Cassel, sidelined by multiple foot fractures, is done for the season. Bridgewater, much like his first regular season appearance last week vs. the Saints, was wildly erratic in preseason action. At times he delivered crisp, accurate passes in tight spaces. However, in other instances, he overthrew intended targets, exhibited poor footwork and displayed the pocket presence of Josh McCown. And that's no endorsement. So goes the inconsistencies of a rookie QB. Patterson was fantasy TNT Week 1 (3-26-0, 102-1), but fizzled in Weeks 2 and 3. He enticed 12 targets in his last two, catching eight passes for 117 yards. Most vexing, he ran the ball only once. WTH, Norv?! At first glance, most would consider this week's matchup against Atlanta as quite favorable. On the year, the Falcons have allowed 7.6 passing yards per attempt. But that's not entirely the case. Starting corners Desmond Trufant and Robert Alford have played superbly. Each ranks inside the top-12 in pass coverage according to Pro Football Focus surrendering a 52.1 catch rate to their assignments. Overall, No. 1 targets have averaged a profitless 37.4 yards per game vs. the duo. Patterson is always a threat to take a simple screen to the house, but considering the circumstances, another quiet afternoon is upcoming. 
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 59 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 10 rushing yards, 9.9 fantasy points
