2009-09-24

Joe Flacco, Bal, QB ()
Matchup: vs. Cle
In the early season, Flacco has flourished. Currently the third-best QB in Fantasyland, the second-year slinger has averaged 248.5 yards per game and posted an exceptional 5:2 TD:INT split. Though he has made tremendous strides in blitz recognition, accuracy and overall performance, the Baltimore QB is undependable this week against Cleveland. Eric Mangini is well aware the Ravens' punishing ground game "can hurt you," especially given the frontline deficiencies his defense has displayed. It's because of the Chihuahuas' shortcomings against the run Cam Cameron will likely institute a more conservative approach this week - Minnesota and Denver did so with much success - limiting Flacco's scoring potential. Because everyone is pounding them into submission, the Browns have surrendered just 186.5 passing yards per game. The opponent looks delectable, but don't bite.
Fearless Forecast: 16-26, 194 passing yards, 1 touchdown, 1 interception, 11 rushing yards, 13 fantasy points

Frank Gore, SF, RB ()
Matchup: at Min
The popular first-round pick has lived a Jekyll and Hyde existence through the first two weeks. Week 1 in Arizona Gore's two scores masked his abominable 48 total yards and 1.4 yards per carry average. Meanwhile last week, he drowned the Hawks in Puget Sound ripping off 246 total yards and two long touchdowns. This week, expect more of the former rather than the latter. Though the Vikings have looked more pliable than in years past, Jared Allen and company have surrendered just 3.8 yards per carry to rushers this season. More damning for Gore owners, no rusher has reached triple-digits against them in 25 consecutive games. The outspoken Allen blames Minnesota's shortcomings on sloppy tackling, but with a renewed emphasis on fundamentals this week in practice, the Purple-headed warriors are hungry to regain their label as the NFC's premiere people eater defense. A season ago, Gore failed to eclipse 10 fantasy points in a game just four times. Week 3 will be the first time he fails to surpass double-digits in '09.
Fearless Forecast: 18 carries, 63 rushing yards, 4 receptions, 24 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 9 fantasy points

Chris Johnson, Ten, RB ()
Matchup: at NYJ
Captain Quick played the role of judge, jury and executioner Week 2 in Houston. Likely establishing a new one-week benchmark in your league's record book, the fleet-footed back compiled an obscene 284 total yards and three touchdowns. His ludicrous 12.3 yards per carry clip is a mark Larry Johnson (2.8 ypc) couldn't achieve dressed in a suit of armor while riding on the back of an enraged rhinoceros. It may seem absurd to designate Johnson a lame after such a remarkable performance, but Rex Ryan's Gang Green D is hell-bent on stopping the Titans rushing attack. Hinting they would be more aggressive than usual, Ryan is expected to hurl a flurry of confusing run blitzes, stunts and twists at Tennessee in an attempt to force Kerry Collins airborne. On the ground, New York has conceded a mere 3.6 yards per carry and 94.5 total yards per game to rushers equal to the second-fewest fantasy points. Johnson obviously could take one to the house in a nanosecond, but when challenged by a supposed intimidating foe (i.e. Tom Brady) the Jets have risen to the occasion.
Fearless Forecast: 15 carries, 64 rushing yards, 4 receptions, 27 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 9 fantasy points

Darren McFadden, Oak, RB ()
Matchup: vs. Den
Last year's first-round pick has shown flashes of his vibrant future over the first two weeks, but has largely been lackluster averaging just 3.6 yards per carry. Denver's 3-4 defense, a disheveled, laughable unit a year ago, has miraculously morphed into a commendable force, especially against the run. The Broncos have allowed just 2.9 yards per carry and 105 total yards per game to opposing plowshares equal to the 10th-fewest fantasy points yielded. The season-ending injury to hole creator Robert Gallery only complicates matters. Without his services, Elvis Dumervil and his fellow trench soldiers will likely penetrate the backfield with ease. Tom Cable is worried. Because McFadden doesn't possesses tackle-shredding power, significant gains will be hard to come by. He's supremely talented, but without even an average passing attack and Gallery, the Oakland rusher will be confined.
Fearless Forecast: 15 carries, 56 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 22 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 7 fantasy points

TJ Houshmandzadeh, Sea, WR ()
Matchup: vs. Chi
To the opinionated Housh, Bears GM Jerry Angelo and Madden gaming engineers are one in the same. Motivated by Chicago's disinterest in signing him this past offseason, Seattle's top wideout is ready to prove Angelo made a terrible mistake. Confident he will get open "no matter who it is," the multi-time Pro Bowl selection may eat his own words. Most experts painted the Bears secondary as a bleak unit entering the season, but Peanut Tillman and his cohorts have actually exceeded expectation. Against Green Bay and Pittsburgh, only one receiver found pay-dirt and just two eclipsed 80-yards against them. Housh has been featured prominently (9 tgt/g) but has yet to contribute noticeably on the virtual gridiron (Ranked 50th among WRs). If Matt Hasselbeck, who is expected to be a game-time decision, is declared inactive, Houshmandzadeh's chances of a productive day decrease dramatically. It's hard to justify sitting the veteran in PPR formats, but Manningham (at TB), Steve Smith (NYG) (at TB), Jerricho Cotchery (vs. Ten) and the now healthy Kevin Walter (vs. Jac) are more favorable options.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 51 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 5 fantasy points

Roy Williams, Dal, WR ()
Matchup: vs. Car
Brandon Funston's personal "Glass Joe" has had a rollercoaster start to ‘09. After notching a dazzling line Week 1 in Tampa, the greasy-handed wideout performed poorly against a banged-up Giants secondary, failing to surpass 20 yards receiving. His stellar 36.3 catch percentage verifies the receiver's mild frustration with Tony Romo. Clearly, the chemistry between the two is still a work in progress. Against the G-Men, Williams was forced to transform into, as he put it, "Flozell Adams," creating running lanes downfield for Felix Jones and Marion Barber. A similar role could be on the docket Week 3 versus Carolina. As discussed earlier, the Panthers have been gashed on the ground this year, surrendering 4.6 yards per carry to rushers. However, through the air, Chris Gamble and Richard Marshall have defended excellently. No wide receiver has exceeded 60 yards against the duo this year. Unless Williams dips his gloves in honey, he won't be the first.
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 32 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 3 fantasy points

Hines Ward, Pit, WR ()
Matchup: vs. Cin
Though Keith Rivers has downplayed the now illegal blindsided block Ward levied on him a season ago, it will surely motivate the linebacker and his teammates to humiliate the aggressive wideout this week. The 33-year-old has, as usual, been an asset in PPR-intensive formats, catching 14 balls for 160 yards. But similar to last season, touchdowns are once again a luxury. Cincinnati's revamped defense has performed commendably so far this season, especially against possession receivers (i.e. Eddie Royal and Greg Jennings). The veteran totaled one touchdown and averaged a vanilla 2.5 receptions and 48.5 yards per game against the Bengals in '08. With Rivers internally hungry to exact revenge, Ward may accumulate mediocre totals.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 55 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 5 fantasy points

Visanthe Shiancoe, Min, TE ()
Matchup: vs. SF 
Shiancoe, a preseason All-Mancrush Team candidate, hasn't yet lived up to the Noise's overzealous prognostication. After two weeks of action, his 8.7 points per game mark ranks 23rd among tight ends. This week, against a 49ers defense anchored by suffocating linebacker Patrick Willis, the towering target is unreliable. In their last game, the Gold Panners handcuffed Seattle's John Carlson, limiting him to six catches for 46 yards. Based on Shiancoe's stratospheric size, he's always a threat in the red zone, but San Fran has allowed just four TE touchdowns over its past 18 games. Jermichael Finley (at StL), Kevin Boss (at TB) and Tony Scheffler (at Oak) are better options.
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 28 receiving yards, 0 touchdown, 2 fantasy points
