2014-12-09

Philip Rivers, SD, QB (42%)
Matchup: vs. Den
Don your most turquoised bolo and get overly animated, Rivers is sure to flood your team with points. It's been tough sledding for the quarterback in recent weeks. In three of his past four contests he's failed to tally 20 or more fantasy points. Placed under duress 33.5 percent of the time, he's posted the sixth-highest sack percentage over that stretch, one of many reasons why he hasn't resembled the QB1 from earlier this year. But, this week, bank on him recapturing the top-10 magic. The last time Rivers faced the division foe, he strung together a profitable line (253-3-2). Despite a couple of costly picks, his re-dedication to Keenan Allen enhanced his final numbers and likely carried owners to victory. In the rematch, this time in sunny SoCal, he could pack a stronger punch. Denver CB Chris Harris, the No. 1 ranked DB in pro football, has conquered the competition. However, because of Peyton Manning's usually infallible execution, opposing passers are frequently thrust into high volume scenarios against the Broncos, especially those on teams with sketchy secondaries. Signal-callers have averaged 41.4 attempts per game against Denver, the highest output in the league. Couple that with Aqib Talib (No. 77 in pass coverage) and Bradley Roby's (104.8 QB rating allowed) generally dreary play, and the Bolt is sure to shine. 
Fearless Forecast: 32-44, 273 passing yards, 3 passing touchdowns, 1 interception, 8 rushing yards, 25.5 fantasy points 

Latavius Murray, Oak, RB (16%)
Matchup: at KC
The biggest development in Oakland's stunning upset of San Francisco wasn't the final nail in the coffin for Mr. Pleated Pants (Jim Harbaugh) or the featherbrained idea to shower Tony Sparano, the head coach of a two-win team, with Gatorade, it was Murray's expanded workload. HALLELUJAH! The sophomore rusher didn't light the world on fire, totaling a rather pedestrian 85 yards, but his 25 touches were a breath of fresh air. It appears running back refuse, Darren McFadden and Maurice Jones-Drew, were finally tossed into the incinerator, elevating Murray into a rest of season workhorse role. The last time the rising rusher faced Kansas City, in Week 12, he posted quite possibly the most efficient line in the history of fake football. Before a concussion cut his evening short, he exploded for 112 yards and two touchdowns on just four carries. Obviously, the Chiefs won't be blindsided by the youngster a second time and will game-plan for him, but if Derek Carr executes at the level he did last week vs. San Fran, stacked boxes won't be omnipresent. It also helps KC would probably give up at least 75 rush yards to a one-legged Curtis Enis. On the year, RBs have blasted the Chiefs to the tune of 5.08 yards per carry. Bet on Black. 
Fearless Forecast: 21 carries, 107 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 12 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 20.2 fantasy points

Chris Johnson, NYJ, RB (15%)
Matchup: at Ten
I know what you're thinking. You would rather bear witness to a photo shoot where Rex Ryan recreated Kim Kardashian's greased-backside snap than trust a Jet during the most important week of the season. That viewpoint is 100 percent permissible. However, Johnson is an appealing option in a venue with a certain sense of familiarity to the RB. Not long ago, CJ2K was the most feared running back in the league. His superhuman speed and well-rounded game were virtually unmatched. During his six-year stint in Nashville, he amassed nearly 10,000 yards from scrimmage and splashed pay-dirt 58 times. Unfortunately, the organization's downward spiral coupled with a deteriorating skill set made Johnson expendable. As a Jet, he's only shown glimpses of his former brilliance, but in a game with considerable personal meaning, CJ could exhibit Pro Bowl form. The Titans defensive line is a wall of pillows. On the year, only Atlanta and Cincinnati have surrendered more fantasy points to RBs. When you give up 131 yards to plodder Andre Williams, that exemplifies how wretched you really are. Including Williams, Tennessee has allowed 100-plus total yards to a RB in five straight tilts. Johnson, who's toted the rock 35 times the past two games, is sure to add to that total. Remember the ex-Titan in 12-team and deeper leagues. 
Fearless Forecast: 17 carries, 102 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 7 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 18.4 fantasy points 

Marqise Lee, Jax, WR (2%)
Matchup: at Bal
Almost identical to his senior season at USC, it's been an uneven transition to the pro game for Lee. Talked up late in the summer, he was eventually overshadowed by fellow rookie Allen Robinson, barely registering a blip on the fantasy radar. However, with Robinson cooked for the season, Lee has quietly turned it on over the past three weeks. Earning more snaps (69.8 percent seen) and Blake Bortles looks (21) over that span, he's grabbed 14 passes for 167 yards and a touchdown. Lee isn't a burner by any stretch, but his physicality off the line and sharp routes have allowed him to compromise defenses underneath, very similar to what Jarvis Landry has done to opponents down Interstate 95. The Ravens secondary rose to the occasion last week against Landry's Dolphins, holding Ryan Tannehill to a mere 227 passing yards and 6.87 yards per attempt. Still, it remains the most exploitable unit in the league. No defense has surrendered more fantasy points to WRs than Baltimore. Against Asa Jackson (75.8 catch rate, 116.4 QB rating allowed) and future cut casualty LarDarius Webb (72.7, 116.8), Lee creeps inside the WR top-36. 
Fearless Forecast: 6 receptions, 64 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 16.9 fantasy points 

Pierre Garcon, Was, WR (27%)
Matchup: at NYG
The Redskins, just like nearby politicians, are an irreparable, fractured bunch who've accomplished little. Injuries, particularly on the offensive line, are partially to blame, but the club has resembled a man-less dingy adrift at sea -- lonely, lost and useless. DeSean Jackson, when healthy, has continued to pile up points, but Garcon has gone the opposite direction. A victim of poor quarterback play, the wide receiver, largely drafted inside the first six rounds of 12-team drafts, has been one of the biggest busts this season. His 58-602-3 tally and resulting 6.0 fantasy points per game rank No. 59 among wide receivers, well off the projected top-30 pace most anticipated. Despite his spiritless production, Garcon is worth the risk in Week 15. No matter if Colt McCoy or Robert Griffin III hold the reins, the wideout should finally prove serviceable. Dominique Rodgers-Cromartie has excelled in coverage this season, but the complementary pieces around him since Prince Amukamura's departure haven't. Zack Bowman, for example, has allowed a whopping 20.2 yards per catch to his assignments. Garcon managed just two catches for 28 yards in the first clash with New York in Week 4. However, off his finest performance in weeks, a nine-catch 95-yard effort against St. Louis, he notches at least FLEX worthy stats in 12-team and deeper PPR formats. 
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 74 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 17.2 fantasy points 

Marquess Wilson, Chi, WR (1%), SHOCKER SPECIAL
Matchup: vs. NO
There's nothing more disheartening to see one of your idolized players, on pace for a monster game, leave the stadium in an ambulance. Sadly, that was the case for Brandon Marshall last Thursday vs. the Cowboys. Scarily suffering a collapsed lung and broken ribs, the almost irreplaceable PPR asset won't play another down this season. For Wilson, opportunity knocks. Classified as a deep sleeper by several fantasy pundits in the preseason, the projected slot receiver has essentially been fantasy bankrupt. A broken collarbone suffered in early August sidelined him for multiple weeks. Even when on the field, he's been an afterthought, collecting just five receptions for 40 yards in four contests. Still, he's a fascinating prospect with a primo shot to showcase his wares over the next three weeks. At 6-foot-4, 185-pounds, he's a lanky long-strider who can really elevate. He isn't the fastest receiver on the planet (4.51 40-yard speed), but he's an unrefined version of Mike Evans, an oversized target who's capable of humiliating smallish corners. Now sliding into the "X" role in a vertical-heavy Bears offense, he could deliver lucrative WR3 totals immediately. His likely Week 15 shadow, Corey White (68.7 catch rate allowed), ranks dead last (No. 113 of 113) among CBs in pass coverage per Pro Football Focus. Overall, the Saints have given up the sixth-most fantasy points to WRs. In a game with plenty of shootout appeal, Wilson is slated to be the breakout star of your semifinals. 
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 79 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 17.7 fantasy points 

