2014-11-12

Robert Griffin III, Was, QB (19 percent started)
Matchup: vs. TB 
To the delight of no one, RG3 has offered little to the fantasy community this season. His ankle dislocation Week 2 and subsequent prolonged recovery led many to seek alternatives. As a result, his ownership dipped dramatically, bottoming out around 30 percent in Yahoo leagues a few weeks back. Reacquired in several leagues, RG3 remains the subject of uncertainty for skittish owners. Prior to the Redskins' bye, the signal-caller performed laudably in his first game back. Against a better-than-advertised Vikings secondary he completed 64.3 percent of his attempts for 251 yards and a touchdown, airing it out to the tune of 9.0 yards per attempt. It's clear, based on his unaffecting rush stats (7-24-0), Jay Gruden would like to keep him tied to the pocket. However, RG3 will continue to take advantage of what the defense gives him, occasionally sprinting into the open field. His rushing skills will likely be quelled this week, but because of Tampa's ineptitude defending the pass, his arm will unload. QBs are averaging 7.91 yards per attempt against the Bucs. In total, six have racked at least 20 fantasy points against them. Alterraun Verner, who is arguably one of the biggest free agent busts this year, has allowed a 127.5 QB rating. Shaking off the last of the rust over the bye, RG3 unloads on the Bucs.
Fearless Forecast: 24-38, 303 passing yards, 2 passing touchdowns, 0 interceptions, 21 rushing yards,, 25.3 fantasy points

[Join FanDuel.com's $2.5m Week 11 fantasy league: $25 to enter; top 21,840 teams paid]



.

.
Ryan Mathews, SD, RB (28 percent started)
Matchup: vs. Oak
Not long ago, Mathews and I were an inseparable item. He was the Daryl Hall to my John Oates. But after numerous injuries and fantasy failures, last year, "I Can't Go For That" became my theme song on draft day. Naturally, Mathews returned to his 2011 form. Used only sparingly over the regular season's first half in 2013, the former Pro Bowler was unleashed by Mike McCoy down the homestretch. From Week 10 on, the bulldozer churned out an RB1 line (4.6 ypc, 112.3 total yards per game, 5 TDs), finishing No. 6 in per game average among rushers. Though he hasn't logged a snap since Week 2 due to a sprained knee, the veteran could be deployed similarly the rest of the season. His legs are fresh and with the Chargers ground attack sputtering over their past couple games, he's sure to supplant Branden Oliver as the power back, pushing the rookie to fill the Danny Woodhead role. Mathews told Chargers beat writer Eric Williams Sunday he "feels good, feels fast." San Diego's offensive line is a bit rickety and he could net just 12-15 carries in his return, but based on the ultra-friendly matchup – Oakland has allowed the third-most fantasy points to RBs – he could could storm back with a vengeance. Debate his merits as a RB2 in 12-team and deeper leagues.
Fearless Forecast: 14 carries, 65 rushing yards, 1 reception, 7 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 13.9 fantasy points



.
Shane Vereen, NE, RB (39 percent started)
Matchup: at Ind
Vereen is essentially a broken clock. He's the right call about two times per year. This week in Indy is one of those opportunities. The Colts rank in the middle of the pack in fantasy points allowed to RBs, surrendering 4.29 yards per carry. However, as Darren Sproles, Justin Forsett, Le'Veon Bell and, of all people, Peyton Hillis proved, they're a vulnerable defense vertically in the short-field. Each of those backs collected at least five receptions and 50 yards against them. Because of Beelzichick's sinister ways, Vereen hasn't become the workhorse some projected post-Stevan Ridley injury. Since Week 7, he's played on roughly 65 percent of New England's snaps netting 13.3 touches per game. Still, with Jonas Gray locked into the "big back" role, the Pats' "joker" should laugh all the way to the bank. In a game with considerable shootout potential (57.5 Over/Under in Vegas), he cracks the RB top-15.  
Fearless Forecast: 10 carries, 34 rushing yards, 6 receptions, 44 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 18.3 fantasy points



.
Anquan Boldin, SF, WR (52 percent started)
Matchup: at NYG
The geriatric receiver may have been born in the Jurassic, but a fantasy T-Rex in recent weeks, he's consistently devoured the competition. Since Week 6, he's spit out a top-15 output, totaling 6.5 receptions and 83 yards per game along with three touchdowns. Accuracy issues have plagued Colin Kaepernick, but the dolphin smooth veteran continues to get it done. This week another standout performance is likely. In its first game without Prince Amukamara, the Giants secondary was minimally challenged. Marshawn Lynch and Russell Wilson gashed New York's defense almost exclusively on the ground. A banged-up Dominique Rodgers-Cromartie and Zach Bowman were thrown at only seven times. Because the Niners' ground attack has been average at best, it's entirely conceivable Greg Roman bombards the Giants. Boldin, who's grabbed at least six passes in four straight games, extends his PPR-friendly streak. 
Fearless Forecast: 6 receptions, 81 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 18.6 fantasy points 



.
Jordan Cameron, Cle, TE (20 percent started)
Matchup: vs. Hou
If you would've told me back in August the Browns would be atop the AFC North with a 6-3 record, I would've instantly thought Cameron was an indispensable part of the offense. However, limited greatly by ongoing concussion issues and a nagging shoulder injury, he's contributed about as much to fantasy as backup-turned-starter Chad Ford. Whoopty flippin' woo. In six contests, Cameron has averaged a pedestrian 5.2 fantasy points per game in standard settings, the 21st-best output among tight ends. Despite the uninspiring play, he's worth plugging back in this week vs. Houston. He remains week-to-week, but indications arrow to him suiting up Sunday. Plus-sized targets have inflicted only minor damage against the Texans this year. Niles Paul (Week 1) and Delanie Walker (Week 8) are the only TEs to exceed 10 fantasy points against them following the "Flames" scoring system. Still, they are vulnerable across the middle. Linebackers Mike Mohamed and Brian Cushing, thrown at 35 times, have yielded 30 receptions. Houston's safeties, particularly Kendrick Lewis (103.2 QB rating allowed), also aren't the stingiest. Working under the assumption he'll be cleared for takeoff, Cameron should regain owner confidence in short order.
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 52 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 14.2 fantasy points 

SHOCKER SPECIAL (UNDER 10 PERCENT STARTED)


.
Derek Carr, Oak, QB (6 percent started)
Matchup: at SD
In this day and age of fan impatience for rookie QBs being immediately thrown into the mix is very much a sink or swim proposition. Carr has made mistakes, but, for the most part, he's tread water, completing 61.1 percent of his attempts. He's missed the mark too often downfield, but the youngster has excelled on play-action. Despite being placed under pressure 33.9 percent of the time, his 6.9 sack rate is also the best in the league. The kid does possess excellent pocket awareness. In fantasy terms, Carr has surpassed 20 fantasy points in a game just three times in nine starts. Still, the matchup this week is awfully enticing, especially for Tony Romo owners desperate for options. San Diego, down Jason Verrett, remains thin at corner. Though Brandon Flowers, the fourth-best DB in coverage per Pro Football Focus, has often clamped down, his colleagues aren't as unforgiving. Shareece Wright, for example, has yielded a QB rating of 90-plus in two of his past three starts. Overall, San Diego has allowed a 17:4 TD:INT split in nine games. Carr spanked the Chargers for 282 yards and four scores back in Week 6. And that was with Verrett on the field. Don't expect similar spectacular results in the rematch, but a useful tally should be scored.
Fearless Forecast: 23-43, 262 passing yards, 2 passing touchdowns, 1 interception, 8 rushing yards, 20.9 fantasy points 
