2014-11-13

Ben Roethlisberger, Pit, QB (60 percent started)
Matchup: at Ten
Outside Steelers facilities an angry mob comprised of disgruntled Big Ben owners has formed. With pitchforks and torches in hand, they're seeking some sort of restitution. His final Week 10 line (343-1-2) didn't exactly torpedo virtual franchises, but when put into context -- 12 TDs the past two games ... the matchup -- his uneventful contribution warranted outcries. This was the Jets after all. A blindfolded Ryan Leaf could've connected on at least three touchdowns against them. Under-performance aside, Roethlisberger has become a bit split-brained. At home, he's rewritten NFL record books notching a near perfect 18:1 TD:INT disparity while averaging 361.2 passing yards per game in five contests. However, away, he's performed marginally, evidenced in his 251.4 yards per game and 5:4 TD:INT output in five clashes. This week in Tennessee, that trend will hold true. Last week, the Titans flexed their defensive muscle against Joe Flacco. Coty Sensabaugh's return helped his club contain the Ravens signal-caller to just 169 yards and a score. Blidi Wreh-Wilson was a pushover, but Sensabaugh and Jason McCourty surrendered a combined 78.1 QB rating. On the season, the Titans rank No. 6 in fewest fantasy points allowed to QBs. Only Andrew Luck and Brian Hoyer have tossed multiple TDs against them. Given Ben's struggles on the road and Tennessee's problems defending the run, a whole lotta Le'Veon Bell should be expected. 
Fearless Forecast: 25-39, 266 passing yards, 1 passing touchdown, 1 interception, 16.3 fantasy points




.

.
Andre Ellington, Ari, RB (93 percent started)
Matchup: vs. Det
Overloaded boxes are in Ellington's immediate future. Sans Carson Palmer, Ndamukong Suh and cohorts will surely dare Drew Stanton to beat them over-the-top, stacking the line in an attempt to stamp out the run. Ellington, who's carried a hard hat and lunch pail netting 26 touches per game since Week 6, will again throw a boulder on his back. Without Palmer, he will be the centerpiece of Bruce Arians' game plan. Unfortunately, due to his unsightly 3.11 yards per carry mark over his past six game and the difficult matchup (Detroit has allowed only 3.20 yards per carry to RBs this year), a Matt Asiata-like 20 carries for minimal yardage is distinctly possible. For the PPR masses, the good news here is Detroit's ongoing ineffectiveness bottling up backs in the flat. Fred Jackson, Jerick McKinnon and Travaris Cadet each grabbed six or more passes vs. Detroit. Ellington, a phenomenal pass catcher, is sure to compile a useful yield in such a format. However, for standard leaguers, he may need 40 touches to crack the position's top-15. 
Fearless Forecast: 18 carries, 56 rushing yards, 5 receptions, 31 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 12.4 fantasy points



.
LeSean McCoy, Phi, RB (67 percent started)
Matchup: at GB
Among top picks who have been on the field, is there a bigger bust than McCoy? Harder to stomach than chugging a gallon of carbonated liquid Doritos (Yes, it's a real thing), he's averaged just 11.9 points per game in the "Flames" arena, ranking No. 23 in the category among all RBs. Money not so well spent. Against a highly exploitable Panthers front, his 17 total yards and a touchdown last Monday was most discouraging. Blame the offensive line – the Eagles trotted out their sixth different combination vs. Carolina – all you want, but McCoy continues to press. Instead of taking the short gain, he's looked to hit a home run, racking up negative gains in the process. On the year, 39.9 percent of his rushes have gone for 1-yard or less. Maybe that's why Chip Kelly awarded Darren Sproles a goal-line touch Monday. His minimal impact in the pass game is also unnerving. Green Bay, squishy up front most of the early season, has stiffened in recent weeks. Over their past three games, the Packers have surrendered just the sixth-fewest fantasy points to RBs. Shady blasted the Packers in Lambeau last year, plowing his way to 155 yards on 25 carries. However, this time around he'll leave owners out in the cold. 
Fearless Forecast: 20 carries, 77 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 5 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 9.7 fantasy points




.
Sammy Watkins, Buf, WR (61 percent started)
Matchup: at Mia
Watkins, one the most hyped rookie wide receiver in this year's class, has, for the most part, lived up to his promise. Flourishing with Hogwarts wizard-in-training, Kyle Orton, under center, he's on pace (74-1096-9) to finish inside the top-10 all-time among first-year wideouts in total fantasy points. Based on his reliable contributions – he's scored at least 13 fantasy points in four of his past six contests – the youngster is usually someone to lean on. However, a nettlesome groin injury combined with an unfriendly matchup, don't lend much confidence. Thursday Night Football, a persistent curse for owners, also doesn't help. Miami is the most underappreciated defense in professional football. Strong up front and strangling on the back end, the Dolphins rank No. 4 in total D. Peeling back the layers of the onion, Brent Grimes, whose stupendous one-handed pick of Matthew Stafford last week was the highlight grab of the year, is one of the league's nastiest corners. Virtually "shutdown," he's surrendered only a 60.4 QB rating this year. Overall, Miami has allowed the sixth-fewest fantasy points to WRs. Watkins spanked the Fighting Flippers to the tune of 8-117-1 Week 2. The second time around, though, a different story will likely be written. 
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 59 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 9.6 fantasy points



.
Brandon Marshall, Chi, WR (89 percent started)
Matchup: vs. Min
It's been a rather tumultuous year in the Windy City. Blanketed by a constant layer of gray, Chicago, much like Marshall's fantasy value, has greatly underwhelmed. See last week's beat down in Green Bay. After calling out Jay Cutler a couple weeks ago, the squeaky wheel finally got the grease in last Sunday's disembowelment. His 8-112-1 output was his best effort since Week 2 and only his second double-digit fantasy performance in his last seven. Given the schizophrenic state of the team, it's hard to project what Bears offense will show. However, battling through yet another ankle injury and matched against an underrated Vikings secondary, Marshall could reveal his sinister fantasy side. Vikes corner Captain Munnerlyn hasn't exactly dazzled (110.5 QB rating allowed), but compatriot Xavier Rhodes occasionally has, conceding a 54.2 catch percentage. Overall, Minnesota has given up the 11th-fewest fantasy points to wide receivers. Marshall vows he'll be "ready to roll" for Week 11, but with the Bears already hibernating for winter, one has to wonder if his production will also fall asleep. 
Fearless Forecast: 6 receptions, 63 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 10.8 fantasy points 
