2009-09-24


Trent Edwards(notes), Buf, QB (Noise QB Rank: 10, Start: 12-teams plus)

Matchup: vs. NO

While Terrell Owens(notes) has openly complained about the Bills' no-huddle offense, broken news about QB battles and Tweet-blasted Tony Romo(notes) off-the-field, his undemonstrative teammate, Trent Edwards, has executed near flawless football on it. Alex Van Pelt's balanced attack - the Bills have tallied a 56:54 pass-to-run split - has propelled the third-year QB into the upper ranks in efficiency. So far he's completed a laudable 64 percent of his throws, gaining 7.9 yards per attempt. Buffalo Rumblings is astonished by the offense's effectiveness. This week the trend should continue. Drew Brees(notes) has been unstoppable. Since the Bills have allowed 337 yards per game vertically, it's very likely Edwards, like Matthew Stafford(notes) and Kevin Kolb(notes) before him, will be playing catch up. The Saints have surrendered 298 passing yards per game and the eighth-most fantasy points to QBs this young season. T.O. believes Edwards still needs to improve on "assessing what he sees," but the rising star is clearly making noticeable strides. Don't be surprised if he eclipses the 300-yard mark for the first time in his career.

Fearless Forecast: 26-41, 293 passing yards, 2 touchdowns, 1 interception, 18 rushing yards, 22 fantasy points 

Felix Jones(notes), Dal, RB (Noise Rank: 14, Start: all leagues)

Matchup: vs. Car

Although Marion Barber(notes) is confident he will be able to contribute Monday night, deploying Jones in your virtual backfield is smart money. Prepared to transform from Tidy to Thunder Cat, the electric second-year rusher, who's performed admirably when provided goal-line opportunities, is primed for yeoman's work. Last week against the supposedly immovable Giants front seven, Jones ripped them for 96 yards on just seven touches, including a 7-yard scoring scamper. Averaging a ridiculous 9.0 yards per tote in his career, he certainly possesses plenty of home-run pop. Tamed in the trenches, the Panthers have struggled mightily containing the run. Through two weeks, they've conceded 4.6 yards per carry, 145 total yards per game and three TDs to rushers, equal to the ninth-most fantasy points allowed. Due to Carolina's deplorable interior play, Wade Philips will challenge the underachieving defense often. Even if Barber plays, Jones' workload will surely expand, though Tashard Choice(notes) should grip the pigskin roughly 10-12 times. Expect the former Arkansas standout to have Dallas' fabulous cage dancers "Jingling Baby."

Fearless Forecast: 16 carries, 83 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 21 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 16 fantasy points

Tim Hightower(notes), Ari, RB (Noise Rank: 19, Start: 10-teams plus)

Matchup: vs. Ind

Quietly, Hightower, who was apathetically selected in drafts, has tallied elite RB2 numbers in 12-team and deeper leagues. Currently ranked No. 13 among plowshares, he has averaged a beefy 110 total yards per game and has been an indispensable asset in PPR formats. Run-blocking is an ongoing dilemma for Arizona, but the Cards coaching staff may follow Miami's blueprint to mitigate Indy QB Peyton Manning(notes). 'Zona is 12-3 under Whisenhunt when they outrush opponents. Historically vulnerable at the line of scrimmage, the Colts have been unable to remedy their trench issues. Through the first two weeks they've allowed 4.8 yards per carry, 190.5 total yards per game and three TDs to rushers equal to the fifth-most fantasy points conceded. Toss in Beanie Wells'(notes) insufferable case of fumblitis and a more balanced attack, and the forgotten Hightower may be Week 3's finest "Citizen on Patrol."

Fearless Forecast: 14 carries, 57 rushing yards, 6 receptions, 44 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 15 fantasy points

Pierre Thomas(notes), NO, RB (Noise Rank: 20, Start: 10-teams plus)

Matchup: at Buf

The unabashed adoration the Noise houses for the PT Bruiser is undoubtedly disturbing. Most owners would never admit daydreaming about experiencing a "Lady and the Tramp" moment with their favorite fantasy commodity. Though this obnoxious writer's orange and blue bias is hard to confine, objectively speaking, Thomas is an excellent option this week, assuming previous unknown Lynell Hamilton(notes) doesn't get the start. The Saintly rusher logged a full practice Wednesday without any setbacks. He still wore an oversized knee brace but hopes to slip into a smaller supportive device by Sunday. Admittedly rusty against Philadelphia, PT says he feels "more comfortable this week" adding he's "ready to go." Hamilton has become a waiver wire sensation over the past 24 hours, but it appears the incumbent is prepared to contribute significantly. The Bills have bottled up the run with marked success this season limiting backs to just 3.0 yards per carry and 123 total yards per contest. But Brees' ability to stretch the field and build insurmountable leads has greatly benefited Reggie Bush(notes) and Mike Bell(notes). With Bell in street clothes and Thomas not quite 100 percent, a split backfield is likely. Still, motivated to reclaim his rightful position as the Saints' true power back, the PT Bruiser will surely be deployed at the goal-line. He's a gamble play who could pay off big.

Fearless Forecast: 15 carries, 62 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 14 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 13 fantasy points

View gallery
.
Mario Manningham(notes), NYG, WR (Noise WR Rank: 14, Start: all leagues)
Matchup: at TB

Prior to his explosive exhibition against Dallas, Super Mario must have devoured a plateful of Super Mushrooms and Starmen. Catching everything in sight, the second-year wideout was invincible snagging 10 passes for 150 yards, including an acrobatic 22-yard TD reception. Tutored by former Jags standout Keenan McCardell(notes) this past summer, the former Wolverine learned how to use his quickness to deceive and bewilder defenders. Despite a minor shoulder injury, fantasy's current top WR scorer should continue his riveting start against a tattered and torn Tampa secondary. Losing starting safety Jermaine Phillips(notes) to a broken thumb last week, the Bucs' aerial containers are even more susceptible than they were a week ago. So far this season, they've yielded the most scores to WRs (5) and eight 20-yard pass plays, the second-most in the NFL. Averaging a very healthy 8.5 targets per contest, Super Mario will once again drive pixilated princesses and owners lovingly wild.

Fearless Forecast: 6 receptions, 93 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 15 fantasy points

Braylon Edwards(notes), Cle, WR (Noise WR Rank: 23, Start: 10-teams plus)

Matchup: at Bal

Sir Drops-A-Lot may not be trustworthy holding small, fragile children, but despite his continuous botches, he should be the object of dependability this week against Baltimore. Shockingly, as good as the Ravens have performed in the trenches they've been equally porous through the air. No secondary has allowed more 20-yard pass plays than the Black Birds. They've also yielded the eighth-most fantasy points to wideouts. Due to chemistry problems and perpetual suckage, Edwards and Brady Quinn(notes) are the antithesis of Montana-to-Rice. But based on Baltimore's troubles handcuffing receivers deep and the expected large hole the Browns will likely dig, Banana Hands is an upside WR2. Don't be swayed by the presumed difficult matchup.

Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 84 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 14 fantasy points

Mike Sims-Walker(notes), Jac, WR (Noise WR Rank: 25, Start: 12-teams plus)

Matchup: at Hou

Sims-Walker hopes to enter the pantheon of hyphenated greats where the marble likenesses of teammate Maurice Jones-Drew(notes) and former Floridian standout Karim Abdul-Jabbar (now Abdul-Karim al-Jabbar) are on display. One of Week 2's hottest waiver wire acquisitions, the lengthy target snatched a career best-tying six receptions for 106 yards and a TD last week versus Arizona. Because the Jags' defense is horrendous and Troy Williamson(notes) is sidelined for the remainder of the season, the 6-foot-2, 209-pound wideout should receive considerable looks in Houston. Unless the Texans suddenly turn back the clock to Week 1, they should have little difficulty building a sizable early lead. In only his second game ever as a starter, Sims-Walker should pay a nice dividend.

Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 82 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 14 fantasy points

Brent Celek(notes), Phi, TE (Noise TE Rank: 7, Start: all leagues)

Matchup: vs. KC

With Higgins (Kevin Kolb) manning the controls, the Magnum P.I. of fantasy tight ends has become must start material overnight. A popular late-round staple on pundit sleeper lists, Celek was targeted a career-high 11 times Week 2 against 'Nawlins, grabbing eight passes for 104 yards. Through two games he's tallied an eye-catching 18 targets, one shy of league pacesetter Kellen Winslow(notes). As my colleague Jason Cole remarked last week on "Fantasy Football Live," the bond forged between Kolb and Celek is very Romo/Witten-like. Matched against an uninspiring Kansas City defense this week, the Eagles monolith is poised to again fly high. A line similar to Todd Heap's(notes) Week 1 against the Chiefs is certainly attainable. Remember, fantasy Nostradomus Chris Cooley(notes), who mind you sells hateful Eagles t-shirts on his website, was high on Celek preseason.

Fearless Forecast: 6 receptions, 77 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 13 fantasy points
