2010-09-08

Matthew Stafford, Det, QB (14%)
Matchup: at Chi
This year’s preseason All-Mancrush selection at quarterback will likely excite the Noise’s erogenous zones to begin the season. Surrounded by a bevy of nuclear weapons – Calvin Johnson, Jahvid Best, Nate Burleson and Tony Scheffler (Ok, the last two are more water pistols in comparison, but still useful.) – the second-year slinger should post top-10 numbers against an average Bears secondary. In his lone contest against the intradivisional rival a season ago, he tossed 296 yards with a touchdown and a pick. The rematch, which has the makings of a shootout, could yield even better numbers. Look for offensive coordinator Scott Linehan to shift Megatron around in order to draw favorable coverage against Chicago’s comparatively smaller defensive backfield. Assuming Stafford can find his top target early, often and accurately, the combo will be a painful thorn for the Bears. Stafford’s transformation from mistake-prone rookie to reliable fantasy passer begins now.
Fearless Forecast: 26-41, 283 passing yards, 2 passing touchdowns, 2 interceptions, 14 rushing yards, 21 fantasy points

Jerome Harrison, Cle, RB (23%)
Matchup: at TB
Montario Hardesty’s displaced knee tendon paves the way for last year’s fantasy playoff hero to become an entrenched RB2. Professing to fellow Clevelanders earlier this week he’ll “give the city everything [he’s] got every time [he’s] out there,” Harrison is hungry and determined to be the bell cow. After his unforgettable 298 total yard, three-TD clinic Week 15 in KC that roughly one percent of the fantasy community actually benefited from, how could he not be confident? A year ago only the aforementioned Chiefs surrendered more rushing yards to backs than the Bucs. Based on the personnel moves Raheem Morris’s club made this past offseason, the unit won’t magically reverse course overnight. Jake Delhomme, who appears to have turned back the clock, enhances the competency of the Browns’ passing attack. His ability to keep the Bucs defense honest will create wide running lanes for Harrison. Also, keep in mind the Browns have an exceptional offensive line. Consider the foaming dog “must play” material out of the gate.
Fearless Forecast: 24 carries, 118 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 18 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 18 fantasy points

Tim Hightower, Ari, RB (14%)
Matchup: at StL
Owners who snagged the overlooked rusher will be loving life in The Lou. On Monday, Ken Whisenhunt noted styrofoam rusher Beanie Wells is dealing with a mysterious knee injury and is “not 100 percent.” As a result of the former Buckeye’s setback and Hightower’s exceptional play this preseason, the versatile veteran gets the start against the Rams. Over the past several seasons, St. Louis has been incredibly generous to opposing rushers, multi-dimensional backs in particular. Last season, the Rams allowed 157 total yards per game to RBs. Running with increased assertiveness, Hightower will likely be the focal point of Russ Grimm’s gameplan even running behind a transparent offensive line. Because of Derek Anderson’s general inconsistency (career 52.9 completion percentage), look for Hightower to also be featured heavily in the passing game. Recall last year in two contests against the familiar opponent, the Richmond product averaged a stout 4.9 yards per carry and 80 total yards per game. Wells should be available, but anticipate Hightower to shoulder roughly 60 percent of the workload. Count on him as a flex or RB2 option in deeper leagues.
Fearless Forecast: 15 carries, 70 rushing yards, 4 receptions, 23 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 15 fantasy points

Malcom Floyd, SD, WR (46%)
Matchup: at KC
With Vincent Jackson rolling and smoking $100 bills on his Barcalounger, Floyd is ready to step out of the shadows and into the fantasy spotlight. The undrafted wideout’s towering frame should wreak havoc against an exploitable Chiefs defense. Adding rookie headhunter Eric Berry definitely bolsters KC’s secondary, but undersized corner Brandon Flowers (5-foot-9) is no match for the 6-foot-5 Floyd. Expect Philip Rivers to take advantage of the size disparity often. Remember in a more limited role last year, the lanky receiver hauled in five passes for 94 yards and a score in two games against the Chiefs. Jackson racked seven receptions for 169 yards and a touch. Trust him as a high-tiered WR2 even in shallow formats. Shine on you crazy diamond.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 88 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 14 fantasy points

Jabar Gaffney, Den, WR (7%)
Matchup: at Jax
Gaff could get the last laugh in Jacksonville. At first glance many would deem a matchup with Rashean Mathis unfavorable. Athletic, well-sized and quick, the corner has performed at an exceptional level over much of his eight-year career. Well … not exactly. When on the field – he missed six games in ’09 ndash; Mathis was picked on with considerable success. According to Football Outsiders, top targets performed 20.1 percent above the league average against the not-so-shutdown corner. Without adequate help over the top, Josh McDaniels will not be afraid to call shots Mathis’ way. Gaffney outdistanced Eddie Royal for No. 1 duties this preseason and is poised to build on last year’s career-highs in receptions and yards. Expect him to immediately become Kyle Orton’s most dependable target.
Fearless Forecast: 6 receptions, 86 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 14 fantasy points

Mike Williams, TB, WR (5%)
Matchup: vs. Cle
Not to be confused with the Seattle receiver with the same name, Tampa’s Williams is an up-and-coming rookie destined to make a strong opening statement. Cleveland showed sporadic improvement on pass defense a year ago, but remains susceptible entering the season. The youngster’s fabulous mixture of size, speed and athleticism poses a problem for diminutive corners Eric Wright and Sheldon Brown, a duo burned often last year. Primary targets performed 18.3 percent above the league average against the Browns in ’09. With Josh Freeman slated to start, Williams figures to attract a healthy number of targets. A top-flight WR3 total in 12-team and deeper leagues is very likely. Currently started in just five percent of Y! leagues, he is a medium-risk, high-reward option in Week 1.
Fearless Forecast: 6 receptions, 81 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 14 fantasy points

Greg Camarillo, Min, WR (1%), SHOCKER SPECIAL
Matchup: at NO
Staring at Camarillo’s mugshot, it's hard not tabbing him “The Situation.” The same is true on the field. Acquired from Miami two weeks ago, the fourth-year pass catcher was thrust into a very favorable fantasy environment. With Sidney Rice down for at least half the regular season and Percy Harvin one unpredictable migraine away from the sidelines, Camarillo figures to play a prominent role this season. After Thursday’s opener he could be the hottest waiver add in Fantasyland. In what will surely be a scoring bonanza on the bayou, the slot machine will do his best Wes Welker impersonation. His slippery ability to find soft spots in zone coverage, fearlessness in traffic and precise route-running may cause headaches for a Saints defense possibly minus Jonathan Vilma. The blanketing attention Harvin will receive only enhances Camarillo’s chances for a sizable payoff. Deep leaguers in PPR-heavy formats looking to roll the dice should plug-n-play the 98-percent available wideout.
Fearless Forecast: 7 receptions, 79 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 13 fantasy points
