2012-10-10

Tom Brady, NE, QB (95%)
Matchup: at Sea
Tom Terrific? More like Tom Tepid in Seattle. Prior to Week 1, most projected extraordinary production for the two-time MVP this season. Everything was in place. He was a proven commodity surrounded with endless weapons in a pass-heavy system. But Bill Belichick isn't predictable. Shockingly, the Hoodie has called 'pass' just 47.5-percent of the time through five games. Stevan Ridley, and not Brady, has become the engine that drives the offense. Still, the passer hasn't become a fantasy slouch. He currently ranks No. 7 among signal callers in per game average. This week, however, look for him to rank well outside the top-10. CenturyLink Field is an intimidating environment. Brady admitted earlier this week running no-huddle, which was instrumental in New England's win over Denver, in such a raucous venue "will be a challenge." Tony Romo and Aaron Rodgers, who both struggled earlier this year in Seattle, would most certainly agree. Overall, the 'Hawks have conceded just 6.0 yards per attempt and the fewest fantasy points to QBs. The defensive line along with blanketing corners Brandon Browner and Richard Sherman are a well-oiled machine. It may sound absurd, but Brady is bench worthy for owners with viable alternatives.
Fearless Forecast: 24-36, 248 passing yards, 1 passing touchdowns, 2 interceptions, 14.4 fantasy points

Jamaal Charles, KC, RB (94%)
Matchup: at TB
When drafted four years ago, no one could've predicted the rusher, 199 pounds soaking wet, was capable of transforming from timeshare back to 30-carry Clydesdale, but that's exactly what he's become. Ridden repeatedly with Peyton Hillis sidelined by a high ankle sprain, the JC of KC has gripped the pigskin an average of 30.7 touches per game over the past three weeks, netting 6.1 yards per touch. Considering his lengthy recovery from a torn ACL, his resurgence is nothing short of remarkable. The workload is very attractive, but Charles, like any rusher, isn't immune from fantasy failure. This week's matchup is tougher than you think. A year ago, Stephen Hawking could've putted his way to 150 yards and a touchdown against the Bucs. In complete disarray under Raheem Morris, they ranked dead last versus the run. But new head honcho, Greg Schiano, has changed the culture, elevating the club's defensive profile. In particular, Gerald McCoy, who is the fourth-best run defender in the league according to Pro Football Focus, has ramped up his game. Strength versus strength will be the theme by the Bay this Sunday. At home, Tampa has surrendered just 3.5 yards per carry to RBs this year. But unless Brady Quinn, who floundered in 12 previous career starts, performs semi-competently, Charles could disappoint.
Fearless Forecast: 22 carries, 96 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 10 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 12.8 fantasy points

Willis McGahee, Den, RB (67%)
Matchup: at SD
McGahee's birth may have preceded the construction of Stonehenge, but the ageless wonder has staved off Father Time, displaying nimble feet, versatility and burst reminiscent of his pre-injury days with the Bills. He's averaged 4.5 yards per carry and is on pace for a 1,204 rushing yard, 10-TD campaign. If he continues on that track it would be his finest fantasy season since 2004. Despite him losing a critical fumble last week against New England, Peyton Manning and cohorts remain committed to getting McGahee the ball in multiple situations. However, the Bolts are a stiff adversary. Corey Liuget and Shaun Phillips have done an excellent job sniffing out the run. As a whole, San Diego has yet to allow a 100-yard rusher this year and has limited opposing rushers to a modest 3.8 yards per carry. In a pivotal intradivisional game, McGahee may get jolted.
Fearless Forecast: 16 carries, 66 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 13 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 10.1 fantasy points

Jordy Nelson, GB, WR (91%)
Matchup: at Hou
The newest spokesperson for the Wisconsin Department of Tourism isn't exactly luring travelers. His underwhelming performance on the field is bad for business in reality and fantasy. With or without Greg Jennings in uniform, Nelson, no longer a secret, has folded under added pressure. Only once this season has he reached double digits in fantasy scoring. And that was against the New Orleans Aints. On a per game basis teammates James Jones and Randall Cobb have outperformed him. Still, he's enticed a healthy 7.2 targets per game, but with only one TD on the season, some owners are strongly considering keeping their pair of Jordache in the closet, especially this week. Jonathan Joseph and Kareem Jackson are a defensive tandem to fear. According to Pro Football Focus, both rank inside the top-25 in pass coverage among cornerbacks. Their stellar play combined with J.J. Watt's disruptive nature at line  are major concerns for Jordy. Unless Green Bay recently signed a group of ogres to protect the pocket, Aaron Rodgers will likely be under duress early and often, limiting Nelson targets downfield.
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 45 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 7.5 fantasy points

Brian Hartline, Mia, WR (50%)
Matchup: vs. StL
Two weeks ago the Barracuda devoured everything in his path accomplishing what Mark Duper and Mark Clayton never did in their illustrious careers. His 253 yards against Arizona set a new franchise record, at the time a "bittersweet" accolade for the humble receiver. No surprise Hartline crashed back down to earth last week in Cincinnati. Attracting extra attention on numerous occasions, he caught just four passes for 59 yards on five targets. Another vanilla effort could be on tap versus visiting St. Louis. The Rams, no longer 'rancid' defensively, have locked down the pass fairly consistently. Corners Bradley Fletcher and Janoris Jenkins combined have surrendered a mere 10.7 yards per catch to their assignments. Throw in St. Louis' aggressive pass rush, and Hartline is more deep league WR3 than 12-team WR2 material in Week 6.
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 51 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 8.1 fantasy points
