2014-12-03

Russell Wilson, Sea, QB (45%)
Matchup: at Phi
I'm sick and tired of Wilson. Yep, I said it. Respect the football player, but his cheesy "Dreams are made" commercials combined with his 10 million other TV spots played ad nauseam this season are beyond annoying. Thankfully, his on-field efforts haven't followed suit. The position's leading rusher, on pace for a vintage Michael Vick-like 905 yards, has developed into pro football's ultimate dual threat. He has more rushing stats than Andre Ellington, Joique Bell and Steven Jackson. Crazy. Presumably due to a lack of weapons, the QB has rarely torched defenses vertically, but his ability to evade would-be tacklers and rack seven-yard gains has maddened defensive coordinators. More of the same is on tap against Philly. Given the delectable matchup, Wilson may fire the rifle more than usual. Quarterbacks are averaging just over 37 attempts per game vs. the Eagles, the sixth-most in the league. Because the Chipster always speeds in work zones and due to Philly's shortcomings in pass coverage, particularly Bradley Fletcher whose allowed 17.1 yards per catch, it's plausible Wilson tallies his fourth 300-plus total-yard performance of the season while chipping in multiple scores. Teams traveling from coast-to-coast always amplifies concern, but the AmFam pitchman is a firm QB1 in Week 14. Buy a policy. 
Fearless Forecast: 20-31, 224 passing yards, 2 passing touchdowns, 0 interceptions, 57 rushing yards, 24.9 fantasy points 

Dan Herron, Ind, RB (26%)
Matchup: at Cle
The rusher, affectionately known as "Boom," has exploded onto the fantasy scene. Appropriate. A luxury sports car compared to the three-wheeled golf cart that is Trent Richardson, the former Buckeye has bulled his way to back-to-back impressive performances, exhibiting long-range speed, interior power and above average hands. Against the Jags and stingy 'Skins he totaled 192 yards, averaging a robust 7.6 yards per carry. His highlight 49-yard TD run was a scamper T-Pain could only dream of. In terms of snap count, Boom continues to play second fiddle, but that could soon change, provided he protects the football. In his past two games, he spilled the pill twice. However, despite the lapses in concentration, he's drawn high praise from head coach Chuck Pagano. The Browns, sans Phil Taylor, haven't packed much bite defending the run. On the year, they've surrendered 4.30 yards per carry to opposing backs. Two weeks ago another former backup, Alfred Blue, amassed 156 rushing yards against them. On roughly 15-18 touches, Herron could too eclipse the century mark. Keep in mind, the Colts could install a run-heavier game-plan considering how tenaciously DBs Joe Haden and Buster Skrine have defended. Trot out the prized horse with confidence at RB2 in 12-team and deeper leagues. 
Fearless Forecast: 14 carries, 73 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 13 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 16.9 fantasy points

Darren Sproles, Phi, RB (28%)
Matchup: vs. Sea
Since Week 3, the Butter Squirrel hasn't earned his acorns. Sure, he's been sporadically useful, but he's a shell of the player that charged out of the gates, compiling an RB1 line from Weeks 1-3. Since then, he's scraped together a nearly worthless 6.9 per game mark in a PPR setting, ranking him outside the position's top-45. Chip Kelly has stuck to his preseason promise of limiting the rusher. On the year, he's seen an uneventful 21.7 snaps per game. Though his workloads are generally light, this week's matchup plays into his favor. Because of the blanketing nature of Richard Sherman and Earl Thomas, offensive coordinators have regularly attacked Seattle in the short-field. Only Detroit and Jacksonville have given up more receptions to RBs (70) than the 'Hawks. In total, seven rushers have recorded five or more catches against them. Sproles hasn't registered five-plus catches in a game since Week 2, but I suspect he'll be a featured player in the Eagles game plan. He's definitely FLEXY sexy in 12-team PPR formats. 
Fearless Forecast: 3 attempts, 22 rushing yards, 5 receptions, 41 rreceiving yards, 1 touchdown, 16.1 fantasy points 

Kenny Stills, NO, WR (19%)
Matchup: vs. Car
Once believed to be a one-trick pony, the Saints' emerging workhorse has developed into quite the well-rounded force. He's picked up the targets slack for injured Brandin Cooks, becoming more than just a deep threat. Since the rookie's absence in Week 11, Stills has racked 13 receptions (on 15 targets), 260 yards and a touchdown, reeling in most of his catches on numerous sideline outs in the 10-19 yard range. With the Saints back in the Superdome and desperately wanting to wash away the bitter taste of its three-game home skid, he should continue to cash checks this week against the Panthers. The last time Stills faced Carolina, in Week 9, he tallied a commendable five catches for 72 yards, but that was with Cooks in uniform. In the rematch, he should easily top that production. Carolina has allowed the seventh-most fantasy points to WRs on the season. Digging deeper, Panthers starting corner Bene Benwikere has yielded a 65.2 catch rate to his assignments. On tap for another 10-plus targets, the rising wideout lands inside the top-20 among Week 14 WRs. 
Fearless Forecast: 6 receptions, 99 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 20.4 fantasy points 

Robert Woods, Buf, WR (3%)
Matchup: at Den
With Sammy Watkins presumably sipping margaritas somewhere in the Caribbean, Woods has established a strong bond with Kyle Orton. Defenses have clearly keyed on the talented rookie, allowing Woods to take advantage of single coverage, typically against exploitable DBs. As a result, he hauled in 13 receptions (on 19 targets) for 189 yards and a touchdown against the Jets and Browns. Similar to last week's tall task vs. the aforementioned Buster Skrine, Woods draws an uncharitable matchup vs. Denver. On the season, the Broncos have conceded the 10th-fewest fantasy points to WRs. However, possibly down Aqib Talib (hamstring) and with Chris Harris likely to shadow Watkins, Woods could see plenty of Bradley Roby. The rookie hasn't exactly clamped down on his assignments. Targeted 69 times this year, he's given up 45 receptions (65.2 catch percentage) and a 105.5 QB rating. Toss in the likelihood Orton will be pressed to throw some 40-45 times and the pass catcher is a strong candidate to again greatly exceed expectations. Starting him ahead of Martavis Bryant (at Cin), Vincent Jackson (at Det) or a banged up Roddy White (at GB) is a prudent move. 
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 75 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 17.3 fantasy points

SHOCKER SPECIAL
Colt McCoy, Was, QB (4%)
Matchup: vs. StL
Unfond memories of McCoy's days in Cleveland apparently marred an otherwise commendable quarterback. His tenure in C-town was rather unspectacular. In 24 games, he netted just 182.8 passing yards per game and a near 1:1 TD:INT split. However, in his brief stint with the 'Skins, he's transformed into a legitimate starter, one that might just be Robert Griffin III's permanent replacement. Against the Cowboys and Colts, he completed 72.7 percent of his attempts for 719 yards and three touchdowns. Another top-15 performance is likely in his third turn with Washington. St. Louis' D, which barely penetrated the pocket earlier this season, has rebounded in recent weeks. Since Week 7, Rams pass rushers dragged down QBs 27 times, the second-highest mark over that span. Washington's patchwork offensive line will have its hands full. Last week against Indy, McCoy was put under pressure on 35.8 percent of his dropbacks. Still, when gifted time, the ex-Longhorn should skewer the competition. Passers are averaging 7.5 yards per attempt against the Rams. And don't worry about DeSean Jackson's status. The wide receiver, who suffered a bruised fibula after getting rolled up out-of-bounds last week, is expected to play. Toss in Washington's atrocious secondary, and the overlooked QB has excellent odds of reaching 20-plus fantasy points. 
Fearless Forecast: 24-37, 277 passing yards, 2 passing touchdowns, 0 interceptions, 15 rushing yards, 23.4 fantasy points
