2009-09-17

Ben Roethlisberger, Pit, QB ()
Matchup: at Chi
Lowdown: After watching their QB hang 363 yards against the supposedly vaunted Titans D, Big Ben owners, too, daydream of conceiving "Little Roethlisbergers." Expect their disturbing thoughts to continue this week in Chicago. The Pittsburgh QB dissected the Titans in the flat and between the hashmarks with surgical precision, connecting with Hines Ward and Heath Miller repeatedly. A similar blueprint could be followed this week against the Urlacher-less Bears. Without its defensive captain and tackling machine lurking across the middle, the Bears' front seven will likely go-on-the-offensive with numerous twists, stunts and run blitzes, a strategy Roethlisberger is anticipating. If that script is followed, the Steelers spread will prove deadly. Though he will be badgered often, Big Ben's uncanny ability to evade danger should produce plentiful explosive pass plays downfield, especially against a shaky secondary. Top five totals could be on the horizon.
Fearless Forecast: 32-47, 311 passing yards, 2 touchdowns, 2 interceptions, 12 rushing yards, 21 fantasy points 

Steve Slaton, Hou, RB ()
Matchup: at Ten
Lowdown: Against Rex Ryan's stingy Jets defense, the Slasher was more Freddy Mercury than Krueger - sans the greasy ‘stache and random "Galileo" chirps. Gripping the pigskin a mere 12 times, Slaton finished with a 42 total-yard, 0-touchdown, 1-fumble performance that paralleled his initial effort a year ago (16 touches, 49 total yards, 0 TDs at Pit). But with a road tango with Tennessee up next, Slaton is sharpening his blades. Last season against the Titans, the then rookie compiled 239 yards and a score in two clashes. His 116-yard exhibition was only the 10th time a visiting rusher had eclipsed the century mark in the 10-year history of LP Field. As defensive end Kyle Vanden Bosch remarked earlier this week, constant Slaton surveillance will be a top priority. Despite the run-stopping emphasis, the miniature rusher's multipurpose abilities combined with the Texans' bevy of lethal weapons will once again make it difficult for Tennessee to contain the mighty mite. If you invested a first-round pick in Slaton, this is the week he calms your fears.
Fearless Forecast: 21 carries, 90 rushing yards, 4 receptions, 21 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 17 fantasy points 

Michael Bush, Oak, RB ()
Matchup: at KC
Lowdown: Not suffering from a post-Kardashian hangover, the NFL's other running Bush exuded notable power and drive against the Chargers Monday night. In total, the former Louisville standout accumulated 59 total yards and a touchdown on just 13 touches. Tom Cable plans to implement a strict two-back rotation each week, with Darren McFadden being the staple horse. Bush and veteran Justin Fargas will earn roughly 12-15 touches per contest when active. Because Bush performed admirably in his '09 debut, it's likely he and not Fargas will play the role of vice-back this week in KC. Assuming he suits up and nets an identical workload; the third-year bulldozer could again produce wholesome numbers. The Chiefs were dismantled by Ravens rushers a week ago yielding 193 total yards, 4.7 yards per carry and three scores. If Oakland's trench heavyweights dominate the line of scrimmage as they did Week 1, sizeable creases for McFadden and Bush will be plentiful.
Fearless Forecast: 14 carries, 63 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 10 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 13 fantasy points

Ricky Williams, Mia, RB ()
Matchup: vs. Ind
Lowdown: The Wildcat may be on life support in Miami, but the Fins' Cool Cat still possesses the skills needed to smoke defenders. Tallying more work than forecasted, the Holistic One compiled 58 yards on nine touches against Atlanta, including a receiving touchdown. Ronnie Brown is clearly the superior option considering Williams' advanced age (32), but the former Mike Ditka obsession still feels he's "explosive." Hosting a Colts defense that surrendered 135 total yards, 4.5 yards per carry and a TD to Jacksonville last week, the Fins will likely prescribe a heavy dose of Brown and Williams to pound the interior. He isn't starting material in shallow leagues, but owners with a flex option in more challenging formats should pass the peace pipe.
Fearless Forecast: 10 carries, 44 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 12 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 12 fantasy points

Santana Moss, Was, WR ()
Matchup: vs. StL
Lowdown: Emanating a repugnant odor, the Rams defense is once again one of the league's most abominable units. Surrendering 15 catches, 140 yards and a touchdown to Seattle wideouts last week, Blue and Gold clad defenders will struggle mightily containing Moss, Chris Cooley and Week 1 surprise sensation Antwaan Randle El. Though he totaled a paltry five targets, two receptions and six yards a week ago, the diminutive dynamo believes Randle El's emergence should help free him near the sidelines. Still one of the leagues slipperiest receivers, Moss should have little difficulty maneuvering to voids against the un-dynamic duo of Ronald Bartell and Jonathan Wade. Expect a big bounce-back week.
Fearless Forecast: 6 receptions, 96 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 15 fantasy points

Justin Gage, Ten, WR ()
Matchup: vs. Hou
Lowdown: The mercury is rising on the Temperature Gage. With Nate Washington nursing a tender hammy, the routinely disrespected former Bear was targeted 11 times, catching seven passes for 78 yards and a score in Pittsburgh. Though Jeff Fisher's conservative offensive philosophy will occasionally limit Gage's looks, he is reliable play against flexible defenses, especially this week. Versus the Jets Week 1, the Texans conceded 154 yards and a TD to Mark Sanchez's wideouts. Considering the strong chemistry between Collins and Gage, look for the graybeard to line up No. 12 in the sights early and often. After missing Week 1 with a leg injury, Houston's top cover corner Jacques Reeves is expected to return, but Gage's towering height and smooth route-running outclasses the Texans coverman on paper.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 67 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 13 fantasy points

Earl Bennett, Chi, WR ()
Matchup: vs. Pit
Lowdown: The Professor, who wants to work toward a Ph. D in sociology once he finishes his post-graduate work at Vandy, is, in all facets, definitely the yin to brain surgeon Devin Hester's yang. Attracting 13 targets last week in the Bears' futile display in Green Bay (7 receptions, 66 yards), he was clearly Jay Cutler's weapon of choice in short routes across-the-middle and on the peripheries. Minus premiere receiver stalker Troy Polamalu, the Steelers showed marked vulnerability through the air against a largely mediocre Tennessee passing attack. Overall, the unit yielded 20 catches, 266 yards and a touchdown to powder blue wideouts, the third-worst performance of Week 1. To refine the passing game and establish an early rhythm, Ron Turner will likely call numerous high percentage passes, many of which will head toward Bennett. Start him with confidence as a WR3 in deeper formats, especially those which score favorably for receptions.
Fearless Forecast: 6 receptions, 72 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 13 fantasy points

Todd Heap, Bal, TE ()
Matchup: at SD
Lowdown: No longer decomposing, the "Trash" Heap has risen from the fantasy grave. Healthy for the first time in two seasons, the once dependable No. 1 tight end was magnificent in opening week action catching five passes for 74 yards and a touchdown. Joe Flacco and John Harbaugh's growing confidence in Heap could resurrect his sliding career. This week matched against a San Diego defense that has surrendered the most fantasy points to tight ends over the past three seasons, the injury prone target could imitate Zach Miller. On Monday night, JaMarcus Russell's safety valve snagged six passes for 96 yards against the Chargers. Count on Heap for top-five totals (Sidebar: That was extremely difficult to type).
Fearless Forecast: 7 receptions, 84 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 14 fantasy points
