2009-09-17

Carson Palmer, Cin, QB ()
Matchup: at GB
Lowdown: Gimpy, bewildered and generally maladroit, Palmer's 247-yard, 2 interception effort against Denver was a laughable, Fitzpatrick-esque performance. Under Dom Caper's tutelage, the Packers brilliant transition to the 3-4 defense has been seamless. Pressuring Jay Cutler into risky throws a week ago, they will likely institute a similar gameplan against Cincy's rickety offensive line. Because Palmer's mobility is very limited due to the lingering effects of a high ankle sprain, he will be a sitting duck in the backfield. Throw in the blanketing prowess of Charles Woodson and Al Harris, and the Bengals' aerial woes will likely extend another week. However, we're really hoping for an Ochocinco Lambeau Leap.
Fearless Forecast: 23-39, 238 passing yards, 1 touchdown, 2 interceptions, 13 fantasy points

Steven Jackson, StL, RB ()
Matchup: at Was
Lowdown: Pugnacious last week against the Hawks, Jackson is already frustrated. His outward conentiousness is understandable. To put it mildly, the Rams are the NFL's version of the Bad News Bears. The two-time All-Pro is undoubtedly, Steve Spagnuolo's most damaging weapon, but with defenses keying on him, and the gross defensive inadequacies of the Rams, it will be tough-sledding for the popular first-round selection. Battling arguably the NFC's finest offensive line, the Redskins contained the Giants rushing attack last week, holding the Frankensteins to just 3.8 yards per carry and 134 total yards. With man-eater Albert Haynesworth clogging the lane, it will be extremely difficult for the Rams rusher to find running lanes. However, because Spags will likely want to work away from the interior, Jackson could be a dependable receptions source this week, meaning he shouldn't be demoted in PPR-intensive formats.
Fearless Forecast: 18 carries, 72 rushing yards, 5 receptions, 24 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns

Joseph Addai, Ind, RB ()
Matchup: at Mia
Lowdown: In Indianapolis, it's the same, tired 3.0 yards per carry story on the ground. Though Addai totaled an appreciable 77 yards and splashed pay-dirt against the Jags, the Colts offensive line struggled mightily to create rushing avenues. Left tackle Charlie Johnson believes the trench issues will be resolved once the O-line plows through the mental roadblocks. Still the odds of a rapid turnaround this week are long. The Fins, coming off a masterful performance against Michael Turner, appear to be one of the AFC's stingiest run defenses. Paul Pasqualoni's base 3-4 limited last year's fantasy darling to 65 yards on 22 carries (2.9 ypc). With Donald Brown also vying for touches, Addai is destined to disappoint. Trust the veteran rusher only as a flex option in PPR formats.
Fearless Forecast: 15 carries, 48 rushing yards, 4 receptions, 27 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 7 fantasy points

Mike Bell, NO, RB ()
Matchup: at Phi
Lowdown: Beloved by adoring fantasy fans and the Bourbon Street media, Bell has become a parish prodigy overnight. But its imperative owners understand his 143-yard performance came against the Lions, a team a blind, three-legged Chihuahua could shred. A full participant in practice this week, the heavily-braced Pierre Thomas is determined to return to action. Idiotically discarded by many in Fantasyland, its absurd how quickly owners have forgotten about the PT Cruiser's stirring run to end '08. Bell and Thomas will compete for touches going forward, which complicates their points-scoring potential. Due to the circumstances and unfavorable Week 2 matchup, any Saints back, including Reggie Bush, is untrustworthy. The Eagles suffocated one of the league's more potent rushing offenses, Carolina, last week, limiting Panthers tugboats to just 2.7 yards per carry. Your opportunity to maximize profit on Bell is about to vanish.
Fearless Forecast: 13 carries, 42 rushing yards, 1 reception, 5 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 4 fantasy points

Brandon Marshall, Den, WR ()
Matchup: vs. Cle
Lowdown: Graduate of the Kanye West School of the Jackass Arts, Marshall was uncharacteristically quiet both verbally and statistically in his '09 debut at Cincinnati. Targeted seven times by Kyle Orton, he caught only four passes for 27 yards. Frankly, his biggest contribution was assisting Brandon Stokley's Mile High Miracle. Possibly a result of not having a comfortable grasp of the playbook, the perennial 100-catch threat looked lost often. With Eddie Royal and the ground game expected to be the focus of Denver's scheme this week, Marshall could once again wander off into space. Pulverized by Adrian Peterson Week 1, the Browns could be this year's Broncos. Recall last year, the My Little Ponies were so repulsive against the run, it made the secondary appear stouter on paper than it truly was. Until Marshall wears gloves comprised of double-sided tape, he's bench material.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 52 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 5 fantasy points

Roddy White, Atl, WR ()
Matchup: vs. Car
Lowdown: Despite reaching double-digits in targets (10), White notched a very quiet five catches for 42 yards Week 1 versus Miami. Expect the Falcons' No. 1 to have another wingless performance. Last season against Carolina, Hot Roddy failed to rev his engine. In two contests, he totaled a marginal 11 catches for 160 yards and zero touchdowns. Though the lopsided result may indicate otherwise, corners Chris Gamble and Richard Marshall played admirably against the Eagles, limiting Philly receivers to just six catches for 59 yards. Also, it's important to keep in mind the Panthers' recent problems containing tight ends. Tony Gonzalez will surely wrest away looks. White shouldn't be benched in PPR formats, but another disappointing effort in standard leagues is a very real possibility.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 49 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 4 fantasy points

DeSean Jackson, Phi, WR ()
Matchup: vs. NO
Lowdown: Other than a nifty TD scamper on special teams, Jackson performed deplorably in Carolina totaling just two catches for nine yards. Because Donovan McNabb's status is still very cloudy, the chances of a strong D-Jack rebound appear unfavorable. Kevin Kolb has a noodle arm. His inability to deliver crisp, clean passes downfield severely hinders the deep-threat's potential. Marty Morninweg will likely design numerous quick-step drops for Kolb to curtail errant passes. Considering Jackson's dynamite yards-after-catch skills he could prove lethal when given space. Still the situation is not conducive for a banner fantasy day. A more conservative scheme could be installed in an attempt to take the air out of Drew Brees. Play it safe.
Fearless Forecast: 3 receptions, 28 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 2 fantasy points

Jason Witten, Dal, TE ()
Matchup: vs. NYG
Lowdown: Shackled by the G-Men recently, Witten has massively underperformed against the Boys' archrival. Over the past two seasons, the oversized target has failed to surpass the 50-yard mark in three of four contests against New York. The Giants secondary was feasted on by the injury imp Week 1, but, despite allowing seven catches for 68 yards and a score to Chris Cooley, the linebacker corps looked strong. Due to NY's possible defensive limitations, Roy Williams, Patrick Crayton and Miles Austin are poised to contribute significantly. Obviously, you're not benching one of fantasy's premiere tight ends in any format, but a mediocre effort could be forthcoming (Sidebar: If the Noise misfires on another Cowboy, Big D fans are welcome to vandalize my lawn).
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 56 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns

