2009-10-01

David Garrard, Jax, QB ()
Matchup: vs. Ten
Over the very young season, the Beer Truck has occasionally caused owners to experience bitter beer face. Ranked No. 19 among signal callers, he's averaged just 206 yards per contest and tossed a 2:1 TD:INT split. But coming off a fine performance at Houston (214 pyds, 29 rshyds, TD), he should be a trustworthy start in a bye-heavy week. Because Kyle Vanden Bosch and his trench cohorts haven't even allowed a porcupine to pierce the frontline, teams have picked on the Titans' shaky secondary. As a result, Tennessee has yielded 297 passing yards per game and seven vertical strikes equal to the second-most fantasy points surrendered. Throw in Jacksonville's defensive shortcomings, and Garrard should manufacture a smooth, not skunky, taste in Week 4.
Fearless Forecast: 20-33, 233 passing yards, 2 touchdowns, 18 rushing yards, 20 fantasy points 

Glen Coffee, SF, RB ()
Matchup: vs. StL
Against the repulsive Rams, the Juan Valdez of NFL rushers is destined to produce instant results for waiver-hawking owners. The Alabama Slamma', an intimidating man to tackle, runs with incredible, bone-crushing power, which he displayed routinely during the preseason (Highlights here). Injured incumbent Frank Gore possesses more explosiveness and versatility, but Coffee fits ideally into Jimmy Raye's pound-you-into-submission scheme. St. Louis has performed marginally against the run, surrendering 4.2 yards per carry, 143.7 total yards per game and three scores to backs this season. However, the Rams haven't faced an offensive line that matches San Fran's in size and skill. Mike Singletary and Raye will not stray away from the Niners' smash-mouth style. Though he had difficulty penetrating the Williams Wall in Minnesota last week, Coffee is bound to percolate with roughly 20-25 carries.
Fearless Forecast: 22 carries, 95 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 12 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 17 fantasy points

Donald Brown, Ind, RB ()
Matchup: vs. Sea
Blessed with a placid demeanor and an exceptional all-around skill set, Brown is Indy's quiet assassin. Though still firmly entrenched in a near 50-50 timeshare with the not-yet-rotting-corpse Joseph Addai, the former UConn standout has become Jim Caldwell's Mariano Rivera. Balanced, deceptively powerful tender-handed and quick through the hole, he's averaged an appreciable 70.3 total yards per game and 6.4 yards per touch. This week against susceptible Seattle, the youngster should be relied on as an RB2 in deeper formats. Gashed repeatedly by the run, the Hawks have conceded 5.6 yards per carry, 168.3 total yards per game and three TDs to rushers this season. Brown may post lackluster numbers early, but once Indianapolis builds an insurmountable lead he'll be employed to slam the door late. Keep in mind Seattle may again be without the services of defensive stalwarts Lofa Tatupu and Leroy Hill.
Fearless Forecast: 13 carries, 74 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 21 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 15 fantasy points

Rashard Mendenhall, Pit, RB ()
Matchup: vs. SD
Our obsession for Rush-ard, though significantly milder when compared to the PT Bruiser, is well-documented. Still the former Illinois standout has produced blandly on the field in his early career. Scrawling repeatedly "I will never put forth a half-assed effort again" on the chalkboard in detention last week, Mendenhall is motivated to prove his mettle. With Willie Parker, who missed practice Wednesday, in considerable "pain" due to a plaguing turf toe injury, the restricted rusher may be elevated from doghouse to penthouse if the incumbent is a late scratch. Though Mewelde Moore would also see a sharp increase in playing time, the second-year back's plowing interior style is a better fit given the matchup. Sans Jamaal Williams, the Chargers are very pliable inside. On the season, they've allowed 4.6 yards per carry, 187.7 total yards per game and four scores to RBs equal to the third-most fantasy points yielded. If Parker is unavailable or severely limited, Mendenhall is a risky pick who could turn an excellent profit. However, Pittsburgh's suspect offensive line must perform at least respectably. (minus Parker)
Fearless Forecast: 15 carries, 64 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 10 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 13 fantasy points

Kevin Walter, Hou, WR ()
Matchup: vs. Oak
In Medieval times, garlic cloves, pockets full of posies and bizarre bird-inspired costumes were thought to ward off the Black Death. Different from the past, targeting Walter is Houston's remedy of choice. With premiere cover corner Nnamdi Asomugha blanketing Andre Johnson, the Texans' crafty No. 2 will have a chance at redemption after he nullified a game-tying touchdown due to a pass interference call. Though his infraction was costly in real football, virtual gamers relished - in his Battle Red/Swedish Fish duds no-less - his 7-catch, 96-yard, 1-TD return to the starting lineup. No. 2 targets have performed 73.8 percent below the league average against the Raiders according to Football Outsiders, but this week will be an exception. 
Fearless Forecast: 6 receptions, 73 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 13 fantasy points

Johnny Knox, Chi, WR ()
Matchup: vs. Det
Everyone's favorite fantasy "Jackass" hasn't taken emasculating pool-ball shots to the groin to gain attention - the numbers have done the talking. One of the surprise sensations of the early season, Knox has performed at a top-20 level averaging 5.3 targets and 53 yards per game with two total touchdowns. The rookie from tiny Abilene Christian, whose been unfazed by the spotlight of Chicago, has exhibited marked poise, open-field elusiveness and, most noticeably, speed. Raw entering the season, Knox has garnered praise from Lovie Smith for his route-running and steady production. Matched against an improving, but still very vulnerable Detroit defense, he's must start material. The Lions have surrendered two 100-yard wideouts and five scores to WRs equal to the fourth-most fantasy points allowed. Jay Cutler will continue to spread-the-wealth, but due to the user-friendly matchup, the youngster is destined to notch his third-straight profitable effort. 
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 83 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 14 fantasy points

Chansi Stuckey, NYJ, WR ()
Matchup: at NO
This past offseason, Stuckey worked diligently with former Atlanta standout Terrance Mathis on several technical pass catching elements in an attempt to diversify his usefulness. In spurts, the hard work has paid off. Interchanging between the slot and flanker positions, New York's No. 2 has performed admirably, catching 10 passes for 112 yards and a touchdown. Because Stuckey has attracted 45.5 percent of his team's targets inside the 20, the second-highest mark in the league, his chances of splashing pay-dirt are enhanced, especially this week. The Jets defense has played at an incredibly high level, but it will be extremely difficult for them to shackle New Orleans' high-octane offense at home. In what could become a shootout, the Dirty One (Mark Sanchez) may be forced to turn to the air to keep pace, increasing Stuckey's chances of a marquee afternoon. Expect a similar tally as Week 1.
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 56 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 11 fantasy points

Vernon Davis, SF, TE ()
Matchup: vs. StL
With Michael Crabtree burning stacks of Benjamins to keep warm, Davis, who's finally matured mentally, is blossoming with additional targets in Jimmy Raye's conservative system. Coming off his greatest fantasy performance as a pro (7 rec, 96 yds, 2 TDs at Min), the click-clacking tight end should again post elite position numbers. The Rams, who inadequately contained John Carlson and Chris Cooley earlier this season, have surrendered the fourth-most fantasy points to tight ends this year. Davis, never short on confidence, claims he's "just scratching the surface right now." Based on Shaun Hill's comfort level with him and his cerebral advancements, this might be the year the former first rounder finally lives up to the hype. Hey, the Noise tried to tell you.
Fearless Forecast: 6 receptions, 82 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 14 fantasy points

