2014-09-24

Philip Rivers, SD, QB (46%)
Matchup: vs. Jax
If you were to poll 100 random people on the street about the greatest hip-hop artists ever, Snoop, Dre, Biggie, Tupac, Jay-Z and Eminem would undoubtedly receive multiple votes. However, Slick Rick, the orchestrator of lyrical masterpiece 'Children's Story,' deserves a mention. Rivers, in a strange and twisted way, is like the esteemed storyteller. In fantasy circles, he's never discussed among the game's elites, but in terms of contributions, he's highly, highly productive, an underrated asset who should garner more acclaim. Off the sixth-best campaign among QBs last year, Rivers has bested that rank through three weeks (No. 5), a stunning achievement considering his tough early season schedule (at Ari, Sea, at Buf). Thus far he's completed 68.4 percent of his attempts, averaged 259.3 passing yards per game and compiled a 6:1 TD:INT split. And he's accomplished that with Keenan Allen presumably in witness protection. Jacksonville is back in all too familiar territory. Outscored 99-to-44 through three games, the Jags have been routinely dissected by the opposition. Nick Foles, Kirk Cousins and Andrew Luck each achieved 'Flame' status against them. Overall, they've surrendered 8.64 yards per attempt, 333.3 passing yards per game and eight total passing touchdowns. No surprise, starting CBs Dwayne Gratz and Allan Ball rank outside the top-70 in pass coverage according to Pro Football Focus. La di da di, the Bolo Tie is about to party. 
Fearless Forecast: 22-30, 244 passing yards, 3 passing touchdowns, 0 interceptions, 10 rushing yards, 25.2 fantasy points

Lamar Miller, Mia, RB (56%)
Matchup: vs. Oak
Admittedly, my obsession for Miller is rather disturbing. Seduced by his open-field wheels, versatility and elusiveness, I stupidly shelled out $45 for his services in a $200 PPR auction last summer. Not deterred by his deflating 2013, I went back to the well, albeit at a much cheaper price, in August and grabbed him for $21. Love is blind. Though overshadowed by Knile Davis in Week 3, Miller met my lofty expectations in an expanded role versus Kansas City. He exploded through holes, evaded tacklers and made numerous plays in the pass game. In total, he racked 132 yards on 19 touches, averaging an obscene 7.2 yards per carry. He's found the end zone only once in three games, but his 0.25 fantasy points per snap is nothing to scoff at. With Knowshon Moreno out again and the first slate of bye weeks kicking in, Miller is a recommended RB2 play at Oakland. The Raiders were surprisingly effective versus Stevan Ridley and Shane Vereen in Week 3. Rookie Khalil Mack, who currently ranks No. 1 among all linebackers versus the run according to Pro Football Focus, was an untamed beast, accounting for six tackles and four stops. His star is only ascending, but the rest of the Raiders are average at best. On the year Oakland has conceded 4.54 yards per carry and the sixth most fantasy points to RBs. On another 15-20 touches, bank on Miller to earn his Shillings across the pond. (In London)
Fearless Forecast: 15 carries, 73 rushing yards, 4 receptions, 22 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 18.5 fantasy points

Khiry Robinson, NO, RB (27%)
Matchup: at Dal
A carbon copy of former Saint and current Jet Chris Ivory, Robinson is a battering ram with no regard for personal health. He runs violently north and south breaking through arm tackles with regularity. So far 69 of his 128 yards have come after initial contact. He's forced just two missed tackles on 32 carries, but it's his interior brawn that makes him useful, especially this week. Shockingly, the Cowboys, thought to have the worst defense in franchise history entering the year, are nowhere near as bad as advertised. Granted they haven't faced the stiffest tests – Tennessee and St. Louis were relatively easy assignments – but they've yet to surrender a 70-yard rusher and have allowed just one touchdown through three weeks. Despite the encouraging efforts, they remain vulnerable. Dallas has given up 4.75 yards per carry to opposing RBs. Last week, Pierre Thomas, and not Khiry, converted a goal-line tote for a touchdown against Minnesota. However, in a contest which Drew Brees should find success attacking downfield, I suspect Robinson will get an opportunity or two to punch one in. 
Fearless Forecast: 15 carries, 64 rushing yards, 0 receptions, 1 touchdown, 12.4 fantasy points 

Markus Wheaton, Pit, WR (22%)
Matchup: vs. TB
Many tabbed Wheaton, hanging in the shadows of most drafts, a deep-round sleeper just a few weeks ago. Pittsburgh's projected dreadful defense, no-huddle offense and Antonio Brown's safety-drawing presence was sure to benefit the sophomore receiver. Though he's yet to find the end-zone, Wheaton has played laudably to begin the season. On an appreciable 20 targets he's plucked 15 passes for 170 yards. He's also chipped in an additional 22 yards on the ground. Those aren't extraordinary numbers, but he has notched the 13th-best WR rating according to Pro Football Focus. That ranking should climb this week. In a slaughter only a fantasy owner could love, the sword-less Bucs, who must have been smashed on fine Caribbean rum, were gutted from start to finish by Atlanta, an embarrassing outcome for a defense many believed would be rock solid this year. Alterauun Verner is a shell of the shutdown corner he was with Tennessee. He and fellow CB Jonathan Banks have yielded a combined 126.6 QB rating and 85.2 catch percentage to their assignments. Harrrrible. Ben Roethlisberger and the Steelers passing attack sink the ship. 
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 52 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 14.9 fantasy points

Steve Smith, Bal, WR (50%)
Matchup: vs. Car
The rather boisterous receiver might be a wee bit motivated to face the franchise that cut him loose this past offseason. He promised vengeful disembowelment shortly after his release and backed it up with an expletive-laced rant about his former employer during his thrashing of Cincinnati Week 1. Old, crotchety and angry 'senior' Smith is about to torch some whippersnappers. Out of the gate, the 35-year-old has chugged, not sipped, from the Fountain of Youth. He's attracted 10.6 targets per game, grabbing six receptions and 96.7 yards per game. His resulting 17.7 fantasy points per contest in PPR settings ranks top-10 among wideouts. Carolina, traditionally rigid against the pass, has softened this season. Corners Antoine Cason, Melvin White and Bene Benwikere have allowed a combined 69.2 catch percentage to their assignments, including a 10-grab (on 10 targets), 90-yard, 2-TD line from Antonio Brown last Sunday night. Absolutely jacked, Smith is must-start material in Week 4. 
Fearless Forecast: 7 receptions, 99 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 21.1 fantasy points

Allen Robinson, Jax, WR (4%), SHOCKER SPECIAL
Matchup: at SD
Throughout the preseason the Jags said, ad nauseam, Blake Bortles would likely not see the field this fall. They planned to employ the Aaron Rodgers approach, forcing their prized pick to watch and learn from the sidelines. But because Chad Henne is only a whisker on  Brett Favre's bushy chin, their strategy quickly changed. Outscored 99-to-44 in three games, Gus Bradley called Bortles' number in the second half last week, a permanent change. Look for the new starter and fellow rookie Robinson to establish an instant connection. The Penn St. product, who battled hamstring setbacks in August, is healthy, active and quickly becoming a terror in the Jags offense. Blessed with excellent size (6-foot-2, 210-pounds), freakish leaping ability and run strength, the former high school hoops standout owns wondrous physical skills. Last week against the Colts, he earned the start over Allen Hurns, played 70-percent of team snaps and registered rosy numbers late (10 targets, 7 receptions and 79 yards). In a game with plenty of blowout appeal, he should again clean up in meaningless action. Though Michael Floyd is the only WR to surpass 70 yards in a game against them, San Diego corners Brandon Flowers, Shareece Wright and Jason Verrett have allowed a combined 97.6 QB rating and nearly 7.4 passing yards per attempt. They can be thrown on. Consider Robinson a prime Garbage Time All-Star candidate in Week 4. 
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 67 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 16.4 fantasy points

