2013-10-16

Nick Foles, Phi, QB (10%)
Matchup: vs. Dal
When Foles hops on the subway in Philly, people probably mistake him for Napoleon Dynamite. The man is a dead-ringer. Foles, presumably a tetherball all-star, is also pretty good and slinging the pigskin. Filling the void for the injured Michael Vick last week in Tampa, he was absolutely spectacular. He completed 71% of his attempts, often feeding the ball crisply and accurately to downfield weapon DeSean Jackson, en route to 296 yards and three touchdowns. Improbably, the lumbering passer also 'sprinted' into the end-zone on a designed QB draw. His subsequent 33-fantasy point outburst ranked second only to Cam Newton among Week 6 signal callers. In a pivotal intradivisional game against rival Dallas, a similar outcome is in the offing. Due in large part to the poor play of Morris Claiborne (92.6 QB rating allowed) and Orlando Scandrick (67.7 catch-percentage allowed), the Cowboys rank No. 1 in most fantasy points surrendered to QBs. Sam Bradford (Week 3) is the only passer who failed to score 20 points in a game against them this year. On the season, they've conceded 7.9 yards per attempt, 329 passing yards per game and 15 total touchdowns to the position. Chip Kelly and Pat Shurmur were noncommittal earlier this week when asked who the starter will be. However, even though Vick suited up last week, the odds of the staff pushing his tender hammy appear long. Let the QB controversy begin.
Fearless Forecast: 311 passing yards, 2 passing touchdowns, 0 interceptions, 3 rushing yards, 23.8 fantasy points

Brandon Jacobs, NYG, RB (12%)
Matchup: vs. Min
Logging his first 100-yard game presumably since the Truman administration, the Football Frankenstein, a once fawned over man-crush, reanimated in Chicago. Yep, we all saw that coming. For a vanquished Giants team, Jacobs' monster night was a bit of positive news in an otherwise lost season. David Wilson, who fantasy pundits sold their souls for in drafts, never cashed in even when healthy. With Wilson sidelined an additional 3-4 weeks due to a neck injury and Da'Rel Scott also on the shelf, the geriatric back and youngster Michael Cox will shoulder the load at least until Andre Brown is activated off the PUP in Week 10. Jacobs, nursing a tender hamstring, isn't expected to practice much this week, but all signs point to another rigorous workload Monday night. If he again displays vintage burst and brawn and the Giants offensive line continues to execute, more top-flight numbers are likely. Currently, the Vikings are the most generous run defense in Fantasyland. Long gone are the days of the impenetrable Williams Wall. On the season, the Norsemen have allowed 158.8 total yards and 1.2 touchdowns per game to RBs. On another 20 or so carries, Jacobs should again flirt with the century mark in yardage.
Fearless Forecast: 19 carries, 85 rushing yards, 1 receptions, 4 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 15.6 fantasy points

Zac Stacy, StL, RB (15%)
Matchup: at Car
A rolling beer keg of Guinness. That's what Stacy is. The 'stout' 5-foot-8, 220-pound RB is a hard-to-tackle ball of muscle reminiscent of throwback Natrone Means. He doesn't possess breakaway speed, but he does exhibit deceptive wiggle, solid hands and incredible interior strength. Since being elevated into a full-time role two weeks ago, he's averaged 5.1 yards per carry, gaining a ridiculous 63.1% of his yards after contact. Also getting more involved in the pass game, he could soon graduate from the FLEX-only ranks. His Week 7 matchup against Carolina presents a tall task. Charles Johnson and cohorts have yielded only one 70-yard RB (C.J. Spiller Week 2), two rushing touchdowns and 4.0 yards per carry to plowshares on the year. Still, Stacy is a lock for roughly 17-20 carries per week and is the featured goal-line rusher, evident in his six red-zone totes the past two games. Who knows what version of the Rams we'll see Sunday, but if there's one sure thing, it's Stacy blasting his way to another 75-plus yards. Hunch says, he'll finally find the end-zone too.
Fearless Forecast: 18 carries, 77 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 8 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 16.0 fantasy points

Keenan Allen, SD, WR (26%)
Matchup: at Jax
For those that scored Allen off waivers a couple weeks ago, congrats, you likely landed a top-15 wide receiver rest of season. The Cal product has quickly blossomed into a must-start option even in shallow formats. With Malcom Floyd toast, he's ascended to the top of the Chargers' depth-chart, hauling in 15 receptions (on 21 targets) for 222 yards and two touchdowns the past two weeks. What's most impressive about Allen's game isn't his electric play-making ability or separation skills, it's his route-running polish. The kid isn't a one-trick pony. As shown Monday night against Indy, he can run just about every route in the tree effectively and accurately. This week facing the Snagglepusses of the NFL, he should inflict heavy damage. Every member of the Jags secondary has surrendered at least a 92.0 QB rating and 61.0 catch rate to their assignments this year. And since Week 3, five WRs have surpassed the 10-point threshold against the unit. Stop thinking of Allen as some random bench commodity who's gotten lucky the past couple weeks. Given the matchup and his recent hot streak, he deserves to be started over the likes of Larry Fitzgerald (vs. Sea), Jordy Nelson (vs. Cle), Torrey Smith (at Pit) and 'Dumpster Fire' Dwayne Bowe (vs. Hou) in Week 7.
Fearless Forecast: 7 receptions, 103 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 21.5 fantasy points

Brandon LaFell, Car, WR (4%)
Matchup: vs. StL
No surprise, the WR5 goes the way of Cam Newton. When the QB is firing on all cylinders, LaFell is a viable WR3. When not, and goose-eggs are a foregone conclusion. The former unfolded last week against a vulnerable Minnesota secondary. In that contest, LaFell put together his finest fantasy performance this season. Torching Josh Robinson on numerous occasions, he caught four passes for 107 yards and a touchdown. His 6.0 targets per game are a bit unnerving, but as long as Cam continues to scorch his chances of repeat success are better than you think. Outside of every secondary in the NFC East, the Rams' is arguably the league's most generous. Trumaine Johnson is the club's only DB with an above average pass coverage rating according to Pro Football Focus. Again, LaFell's smallish average workload amplifies the risk, but those with limited options at WR3 should confidently roll the dice. Keep in mind, St. Louis has given up the ninth-most fantasy points to wide receivers this season.
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 78 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 16.8 fantasy points

Tim Wright, TB, WR/TE (0%), SHOCKER SPECIAL
Matchup: at Atl
Seven years ago the Yahoo Fantasy community was rocked by an overlooked rookie with an unusual position designation. His name: Marques Colston. Labeled a 'tweener' by NFL scouts, he was assigned the ultra-rare WR/TE by Yahoo numbers provider Stats Inc., an eligibility tag that made owners' heads spin. In an age when tight end was about as deep as a kiddie pool, Colston proved incredibly valuable posting a 70-1038-8 line. Though Wright is barely a blip on most fanatics' radar, he is quietly following in the Saint's footsteps. Rising from the depths last week against Philly, Wright, an undrafted rookie from Rutgers, was the apple of Mike Glennon's eye. The green passer, down Mike Williams, looked Wright's way a season-high nine times, which resulted in seven receptions for 91 yards. The tight end would probably lose a footrace to Chunk from 'Goonies', but his skyward height (6-foot-4, 220-pounds) and trust of his former college coach Greg Schiano are major pluses. Given his position versatility and growing role, he's worth entertaining in challenging formats. Facing an Atlanta D that's allowed the sixth-most fantasy points to TEs this season, he could again finish with surprising numbers.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 67 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 16.4 fantasy points

