2013-10-17

Matt Ryan, Atl, QB (53%)
Matchup: vs. TB
Most quarterbacks refocused and rejuvenated off a bye would be itching to get back on the field. However, sans his most explosive weapon (Julio Jones) and deep in a seemingly insurmountable hole, Ryan can't be feeling overly positive about the current state of his team. Roddy White, still extremely limited by ankle and hamstring woes, continues to be a major question mark and again without the services of Steven Jackson, Ryan is playing with a reduced arsenal. Tony Gonzalez is sure to attract at least 12-15 targets this week and beyond, but Harry Douglas has offered very little as a starter in the past (43.4 ypg, 1 TD in six career starts) and without Julio's ability to stretch the filed, the mid-range pass game is sure to struggle. Despite having the third-best cover corner in the league (per Pro Football Focus) in Darrelle Revis on roster, Tampa hasn't exactly grounded opposing passing attacks, evident in Nick Foles' phenomenal performance last week (296-3-0). Still, given the unappealing circumstances, Ryan is far from a must-start. The aforementioned Foles (vs. Dal), Philip Rivers (at Jax) and Eli Manning (vs. Min) are stronger plays.
Fearless Forecast: 253 passing yards, 1 passing touchdown, 1 interception, 3 rushing yards, 15.9 fantasy points

Marshawn Lynch, Sea, RB (98%)
Matchup: at Ari
Lynch is the definition of bull in a china shop. His unparalleled tenacity, violent running style and reliable durability practically make him matchup proof. But, as discussed previously, no commodity is immune from tallying sickly numbers. This week in the desert, don't expect Lynch to taste the rainbow. The Cardinals, without much fanfare, have been ferocious against the run. On the year, they've surrendered just 3.1 yards per carry and 50.2 rushing yards per game to opposing RB1s equal to the fourth-fewest fantasy points to the position. According to Pro Football Focus, Jasper Brinkley leads all linebackers in run defense totaling 16 stops on the season. Dishing out plenty of punishment at the UPS, they've also allowed just one 90-yard rusher in 14 straight home games. Suffice it to say, the Cards definitely crank up the defensive heat under the roof. Lynch, currently the No. 3 ranked RB in Fantasyland, has notched at least 10 fantasy points in four of six games. However, limited by a nagging hip injury and given the short week, he could be stuffed often Thursday night. Recall last season at Glendale he totaled 97 yards without a touchdown.
Fearless Forecast: 18 carries, 67 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 10 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 9.2 fantasy points

Stevan Ridley, NE, RB (50%)
Matchup: at NYJ
Trust Ridley against the stiffest run defense in the AFC and you'll surely sport a Rob Ryan face come week's end. Supposedly back on track after exploding for 110 total yards and two touchdowns on 21 touches (38 snaps), the Riddler finally rewarded owners who exercised patience. He displayed vintage interior toughness and, most importantly, secured the football, regaining the confidence of the coaching staff and fantasy community. With Shane Vereen still sidelined and Tom Brady struggling, it's clear Bill Belichick and Josh McDaniels will lean heavily on the ground game moving forward. Except for this week. Led by back snacker Damon Harrison, the Jets are an impenetrable fortress up front. No defense has conceded a lower yards per carry mark to RBs than New York (2.8). Overall, its given up the third-fewest fantasy points, holding RB1s to a mere 45.8 rushing yards per game. Recall Ridley only totaled 40 yards on 16 carries in their first rain-soaked meeting in Week 2. Anticipate similar numbers in the rematch.
Fearless Forecast: 21 carries, 56 rushing yards, 1 receptions, 5 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 6.8 fantasy points

Calvin Johnson, Det, WR (88%)
Matchup: vs. Cin
Megatron a Lame? The leader of the Decepticons? Dude, that deserves an arm-mounted fusion cannon blast to the face. Admittedly, this is only the second time in Lames history Johnson has made the list (Sidebar: The first time didn't end pretty for yours truly), but owners should express some hesitancy before automatically assuming he's a must-start, especially in shallow leagues. Hampered by a knee injury last week, the decorated wideout operated as a decoy against Cleveland. Blanketed by cover extraordinaire Joe Haden in Cleveland, he managed just three receptions for 25 yards, averaging 0.86 yards per route run according to PFF. His appearance at practice Wednesday was a sign he's getting closer to full-strength, but in light of his situation and matchup, he's far from a WR1. Leon Hall, who returned to the lineup last week after missing two games with a hamstring pull, is one of the league's stingiest corners. His assignments have tallied just 8.5 yards per catch, the fifth-lowest YPC surrendered by a DB this season. More impressive, WR1s are averaging a lowly 44.1 yards per game against the Bengals this year. Yes, it's Calvin Johnson, but it would be no surprise if recent waiver wire gems Justin Blackmon (vs. SD), Keenan Allen (at Jax) and Terrance Williams (at Phi) outperform him in Week 7. Yep, HUEVOS.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 68 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 10.5 fantasy points

Anquan Boldin, SF, WR (65%)
Matchup: at Ten
Remove Boldin's off-the-hook Week 1 (13-208-1) and he's essentially Doug Baldwin. That's right, a minimally-owned third option in a run-first, run-often Seattle offense. Over the past four weeks, the receiver has racked just 42.6 yards per game, finding the end-zone only once. Colin Kaepernick's incredible inconsistency and San Fran's lack of a reliable WR2 are to blame. Unfortunately, a bounce-back seems highly unlikely in Week 7. Previously detailed in this space, the Titans secondary should be feared. According to PFF, Alterraun Verner and Jason McCourty rank top-10 in pass coverage. Verner especially has been lock-down. Targeted 32 times he's yielded just 11 receptions (34.4 catch%age), leading all corners in interceptions (4) and passes defended (8). Overall, WR1s are netting a disgusting 34.9 yards per game against the Titans, who rank No. 5 in fewest fantasy points allowed to receivers. Because of the difficult environment and Kaepernick's unreliability, Boldin is nothing more than a fringe WR3 in Week 7.
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 41 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 7.1 fantasy points

