2011-09-28

Tony Romo, Dal, QB (51%)
Matchup: vs. Det
In Romo's gutsy performance against the 'Skins last Monday night, he and his receivers were often incommunicado. In what at times seemed like a backyard football game, the passer was often forced to play traffic cop, directing his receivers toward soft spots in Washington coverage. Sometimes his tutelage sunk in. Most of the time it didn't. For a frustrated Romo, Miles Austin couldn't return to the field fast enough. Communication issues could again arise this week against a ball-hawking Detroit club. The unblemished Lions have surrendered just 5.8 yards per attempt, 202.7 passing yards per game and two air scores to QBs, equal to the fourth-fewest fantasy points allowed. Romo is a master of improvisation, but bull-rushers Ndamukong Suh, Corey Williams and rookie Nick Fairley, who might be in uniform for the first time this season, will likely breathe down his neck all afternoon. His high-tech Kevlar vest may be able to deflect little Johnny's tee-ball bat, but Suh is an entirely different story. Unless he quickly gets on the same page with his receivers and the Cowboys offensive line plays the game of its life, it could be another uneventful fantasy week for the three-time Pro Bowler.
Fearless Forecast: 23-37, 229 pasing yards, 1 touchdown, 1 interception, 14.4 fantasy points

Chris Johnson, Ten, RB (91%)
Matchup: at Cle
When CJ2K was snared in the late first-round in eleventh hour drafts his investors likely pumped their fists in excitement. However, since then, many of those same owners have stared at their computer screens in disbelief, as Johnson has racked a number of 1-yard gut-punches. Currently the 35th-best back in fantasy, four spots behind future HOFer Michael Bush, Johnson has seriously bombed. After last week's unencouraging 75 total yard effort against the Broncos, Captain Quick vowed he would "fix" things. Many analysts, including Y!'s own Eddie George, are buying into it. The Noise still has his doubts. Sure, he's still rounding into form after a prolonged layoff, but the Titans' run-blocking execution has been horrific, evident in Johnson's 2.1 yards per carry this season. Only intensifying matters is the loss of Kenny Britt. CJ2K, already the center of defensive coordinators' game-plans, will garner even more attention. Unless inconsistent tight end Jared Cook can step up and stretch the field, more woeful outings are in store for the rusher. Cleveland, which has allowed 162.3 total yards per game to RBs this season, is an exploitable defense, but until improvements in several areas are made a return to normalcy will remain in the distance. Be leery.
Fearless Forecast: 16 carries, 59 rushing yards, 4 receptions, 27 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 11.6 fantasy points

Jahvid Best, Det, RB (67%)
Matchup: at Dal
Similar to last year, Best is off to a scorching start. Through three weeks he's averaged 14.8 points per game in standard formats, good enough for a Round 1 value (No. 8 among RBs) in 10-team leagues. Fifth in receptions with 15, he's been even more valuable in PPR-friendly formats. However, his matchup against a stingy Dallas front poses many problems. On the season, opposing rushers have performed 22.8% below the league average against the 'Boys, netting just 2.7 yards per carry. Plungers DeMarcus Ware, the No. 1 run enforcer in the league according to Pro Football Focus, and Jay Ratliff have done a tremendous job executing on gap assignments. Washington had some success passing the ball to Tim Hightower and Roy Helu on the wings last week. Ultimately, if Best hopes to deliver top-20 numbers he will have to inflict similar damage in space. Because he'll likely reel in 4-5 receptions, he's tough to bench in PPR formats. But in standard leagues, anticipate a final line similar to last week's 24th-best output posted against Minnesota.
Fearless Forecast: 13 carries, 37 rushing yards, 4 receptions, 36 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 10.3 fantasy points

Mike Williams, TB, WR (64%)
Matchup: vs. Ind
Nancy Grace in fluorescent Spandex. That's how hideous Williams' numbers have been over the past two weeks. Currently, the consistency king wears a tarnished crown. A year ago Right Coast Mike crossed the chalk in 10 of 17 contests. So far this year, the second-year receiver, who's admittedly crumbled under increased defensive attention, has found the end-zone just once and has yet to surpass 55 yards in a game. The downward trend likely won't get bucked against Indy. For all the troubles the Colts have experienced on offense, defensively they've played admirably. Dwight Freeney and Robert Mathis have routinely harassed quarterbacks, altering passes and creating miscues. With that in mind look for Raheem Morris to install a conservative game-plan centered on the legs of LeGarrette Blount. Indy's interior defense, though much improved, is still vulnerable. Even when Freeman turns to the air, don't expect No. 19 to be his weapon of choice. Cover 2 schemes, like what Indy deploys, have wreaked havoc on the youngster. Two weeks ago in Minnesota he was limited to just one catch for -4-yards, a victim of added pressure over the top. If the Colts follow a similar strategy, Williams could again suffer.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 46 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 8.3 fantasy points

Devery Henderson, NO, WR (54%)
Matchup: at Jac
The speedy Henderson is exactly what the doctor ordered for a Saints club who lost its most reliable target, Marques Colston, to a broken collarbone in Green Bay Week 1. Once an object of inconsistency, he's delivered steady results netting 88.3 yards per game with three scores in three games, an excellent line for a player largely undrafted in 12-team formats. Unfortunately, all good things come to an end. With Lance Moore now healthy, Henderson, who finished with just three catches for 62 yards last week, will likely return to his hit-or-miss ways. Against Houston he attracted just four targets compared to 12 in his previous two efforts. Colston's shocking early activation only complicate matters. Expect another light workload this week. A season ago, Jacksonville was arguably the worst secondary in the NFL giving up 8.3 yards per attempt. However, this year, the retooled defense has done a complete 180, limiting opposing passers to a very respectable 6.6 yards per attempt. As a result, receivers are performing 28.2% below the league average against the Jags. Yes, in a high-yield passing offense Henderson will get a few looks, but your sell-high window is about to close.
Fearless Forecast: 3 receptions, 56 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 7.8 fantasy points
