2014-08-18

Justin Hunter, Ten, WR – JH Drool Fest 2014 sold roughly 10,000 tickets Friday night. Talked up incessantly by several fanalysts over the past few weeks, the sophomore receiver showcased why so many are excited when in his virtual presence. On a finely placed jumpball from Jake Locker, the 6-foot-4 target climbed the ladder, plucked the ball out of the sky and kept his feet in bounds for what looked like an easy touchdown. (WATCH IT HERE) Later on with the second team, he caught a deep-crossing strike from backup Zach Mettenberger then sprinted to the end zone untouched for a 64-yard score. Overall, he was effective everywhere – on the sidelines, between the hashmarks, at the goal-line. There’s no doubting his attractive measurables and baseline talents. However, Locker’s gross inconsistencies, particularly on deep-ball throws, should temper expectations. Keep in mind, the QB has completed a hideous 23.3 percent of his attempts beyond 20 yards in his career. Hunter, for now, remains a bargain at his 125.5 Yahoo ADP, but with his perceived worth climbing at an exponential rate, orthopedic surgeons will soon work overtime repairing outstretched arms. There’s 7-9 TD, 800-plus yard appeal here, but Locker must prove he can deliver the goods accurately downfield. 

Matthew Stafford, Det, QB – Negative words written about Stafford's inflated fantasy value are laughable. The infrastructure around him is strong, he's produced at an elite level before and he spent the entire offseason greatly improving his mechanics. The results thus far are very, very encouraging. Though he faced an exploitable Raiders secondary, the former No. 1 pick looked like a QB on the precipice of a career year. On a pair of surgical drives, he threw crisp, accurate passes, carved up the Raiders' secondary and guided his team to a pair of touchdowns. On the night, he was nine-of-10 with 88 yards and two TDs. And that was sans Calvin Johnson. Yes, his numbers, despite a beefy volume (1,361 attempts), have been a bit hollow the past couple years, but in a New Orleans-styled offense and with Golden Tate in tow, it's conceivable he could get back to the 5,000-yard, 40-TD level from three years ago. After the big three – Peyton Manning, Drew Brees and Aaron Rodgers – he's the next best thing. You're not the sharpest knife in the drawer if you believe he's overvalued at his current 49.4 Yahoo ADP. 

Marqise Lee, Jax, WR – Down Cecil Shorts and Ace Sanders, the "Missing U" took advantage of exclusive work with the first team Thursday night in Chicago. A key cog on three Jacksonville scoring drives, he caught all four targeted passes for 27 yards and a touchdown. His routes were clean and fluid throughout the first half, a great sign he’ll likely contribute immediately once the regular season gets underway. Lee was a bit enigmatic his senior year at USC. Nearly uncontainable the season before, his production fell off precipitously last fall, prompting many to question his long-term appeal. Still, the former team captain is a hard-working, playmaking talent who is very dangerous on slants and crosses. He doesn’t possess breakneck speed (4.52 40-yard time), but his short-field acceleration and wiggle allows him to gain appreciable yards after the catch. The Jags will be largely conservative on offense and Shorts should be back for Week 1, but Lee, who’s had a great camp, could post Terrance Williams-like numbers (44-736-5) in his rookie campaign. Target him in the double-digit rounds. 

Jordan Matthews, Phi, WR – Last week Matthews couldn't catch botulism if he tried. Targeted seven times he dropped three passes. However, after his sensational effort Friday, last week's debut was obviously due to a case of the yips. The rookie was brilliant working with ones and twos in New England. He caught all nine balls thrown his way finishing with a game-high 104 yards (SEE HIGHLIGHTS HERE). The Vandy Dandy owns the tools necessary to make an immediate fantasy impact. He's big, sure-handed, a polished route-runner and slated to man the slot in Chip Kelly's offense. Philly is still a run-first team, but the Old Chipster is sure to weave short crossing routes and bubble screens for Matthews into the weekly playbook. He should see substantially more targets than Jason Avant did as the Eagle's slot man a year ago (76). At this point, it's no stretch to think the rookie is the second-most valuable Philly WR next to Jeremy Maclin. Yes, Riley Cooper is terribly overrated (102.2 ADP, WR41).  

Kyle Rudolph, Min, TE – Leaner, quicker and confident, the plus-sized target has "breakout" stamped on his forehead. Utilized in various ways against visiting Arizona, he registered four receptions for a game-high 89 yards, including a 51-yard deep-post connection with Matt Cassel for a TD (SEE IT HERE). Rudolph, who reeled in nine touchdowns two seasons ago but has never crossed the 500-yard mark in a season, is every bit this year's Jordan Cameron. Norv Turner's offense, which previously helped launch Jay Novacek, Antonio Gates and Cameron into the stratosphere, is tailored to maximize his performance. Given his size, soft hands and increased speed, he's destined to finish well inside the position's top-10, possibly flirting with the top five. Alongside Jordan Reed, Zach Ertz and Charles Clay, there isn't a more attractive option at the position after the big boys (from Vernon Davis on) fall off the board. Bank on at least a 65-800-8 campaign. 

