2014-08-18

Stevan Ridley, NE, RB – Once again, The Riddler lived up to his nickname. He played 12 snaps, ran the ball effectively between the pipes (9 atts, 45 yards, 5.0 ypc) and, predictably, fumbled, forcing Bill Belichick to immediately banish him to solitary confinement. Wash. Rinse. Repeat. When he secures the football, Ridley is one of the better between-the-tackles grinders in the league. He gets downhill quickly, plows through piles and has a nose for the end zone. Unfortunately, his nine career fumbles (six lost) in 46 games has created trust issues and placed him on Belichick's doghouse. His latest setback only muddied the waters in an already indecipherable New England RBBC. Ridley, Shane Vereen, James White and Friday night standout Brandon Bolden (three carries, 21 yards) will likely be involved in a painfully unpredictable rotation, eerily similar to New Orleans' backfield. If you relish migraine headaches, by all means invest. If not, aim for Lamar Miller, Terrance West or Bernard Pierce around the same price point as Ridley's (69.7 ADP). 

Zac Stacy, StL, RB – At this time last year, there was no bigger Stacy apologist than yours truly. His burly frame, better-than-advertised versatility and limited competition screamed breakout candidate. Though he exceeded even my lofty expectations, I did not renew the fan-club membership. The Rolling Beer Keg was rarely foamy as the starter, pumping out a top-10 line from Week 5 on. However, under the surface, his production was far from RB1 worthy. Nearly 32 percent of his touches went for one, zero or negative yards. Overall, his 26.6 elusive rating ranked No. 24 among eligible backs. Ugly runs were again the norm Saturday against Green Bay. Four of his six attempts were for 1-yard or less. On the day, he totaled a ghastly six yards on six carries. Tre Mason and Benny Cunningham have looked good working with the B and C teams, but Stacy remains in the catbird seat, for now. Still, unless Sam Bradford morphs into Kurt Warner '99, stacked boxes will be common. The risks attached are rather significant, different from other RB2s Andre Ellington, Gio Bernard and Doug Martin (now sans Charles Sims). 

Christine Michael, Sea, RB – It might be time for the Michael enthusiasts to take the ice-bucket challenge. Their burning love for the second-year rusher needs to cool off. As stated previously, Michael is a highly explosive, talented runner who has a bright future ahead of him. Many in the fantasy community believe he's destined to wrest away 8-12 touches per game from Marshawn Lynch this year and develop into a RB1 as soon as 2015. But don't gloss over Robert Turbin. Michael did run the ball well on his eight attempts (45 yards, 5.6 ypc) versus San Diego, but it was the former Utah St. star who stole the show. He pinballed off tacklers, powered through holes and moved the chains en route to 81 yards and a TD on 12 carries. His sick cut-back move, which burst him into the open field, led him to a 47-yard scamper, the highlight of his night (WATCH IT HERE). Deceptively fast, versatile and a bulldozer in a crowd (62.5 yards after contact percentage in '13), he's a vastly underrated rusher who will continue to play a prominent role in this offense. Despite Michael's ongoing fumbling issues, owners will continue to snap tendons for him, but Turbin, a superior pass-blocker, might be the true Lynch handcuff to own. 

Le'Veon Bell, Pit, RB – At this point last year, Bell was in a state of fantasy purgatory. Suffering a mid-foot sprain in the Steelers' first preseason game, his ADP dipped rapidly, making him a value pick in the later rounds. Though healthy this time around, he's again experiencing a major downturn. His performance in Pittsburgh's clash with Buffalo didn't warrant panic, however, post-game comments he told CBS' Dave Richard did. Bell admitted backfield compatriot LeGarrette Blount "probably will" get the goal-line carries this fall. His "co-starter" label Saturday night also fueled buyer concern. Most will downgrade Bell dramatically over the next couple weeks, possibly sliding his ADP into Round 3 of 12-team drafts. Despite the discouraging news, I'm still buying. Bell is a better fit for the no-huddle tempo Todd Haley is trying to accomplish. He's an effective pass-blocker, a terrific zone-blocking runner and a superior receiver (Read my full Bell argument here). And don't assume the competition is a stronger hammer at the goal line. Bell was 7-for-19 (36.8 percent) in TD-scoring carries inside the five last year. Blount, from the same distance in his career, is an identical seven for 19. I'm sliding Bell to the 11th best RB, but no farther. The 20-25 touches per game he routinely logged last year will be few and far between, especially with speedster Dri Archer also in the mix, but I fully expect him to tote at least 16-18 per game, including a few GL looks. Let the discount shopping begin. 

Mohamed Sanu, who caught two passes for 56 yards and a TD versus the Jets, could make a WR3-level impact with Marvin Jones sidelined the first five weeks of the regular season. Cincy will feature the run more under Hue Jackson, but when Andy Dalton turns to the air, Sanu should rack numerous targets. Defenses, as always, will key on A.J. Green, leading to complementary single coverage for Sanu. The overlooked wideout shouldn't go undrafted in 12-team leagues... Blake Bortles cranked up the heat on Chad Henne, though against Bears second-teamers. Quite possibly the most impressive rookie passer in the preseason thus far – Jimmy Garoppolo also has a strong case – Bortles stood tall in the pocket, delivered strikes and looked every bit a future franchise QB, finishing with 160 yards on 11 completions (9.4 ypa). Defensive-minded Gus Bradley will continue to stress ball control, which hinders Bortles' upside, but he has QB2 appeal in dynasty leagues. The Jags will remain prudent, for now ... Kenbrell Thompkins, the darling of last preseason, has ventured into post-hype sleeper territory. Tom Brady will spread the wealth, but the wideout, going largely undrafted in Yahoo leagues, could be a sneaky good WR3/4 in deeper formats. Brady noted post-game he has great confidence in him. Aaron Dobson is slowly working his way back after missing the entire offseason recovering from a foot injury and with Gronk on the field, Thompkins should see many favorable coverages. KT's 4-3-32-1 line playing with the first team against the Eagles might be a harbinger of valuable performances to come ... 

Sitting on a dull blade while slowly rotating. That's what watching the Raiders' first-team offense feels like. Oakland has talent, particularly at WR (Andre Holmes, Rod Streater), but Matt Schaub looks charred. The first-string O-line does too. With the exception of Holmes late, I'm avoiding MJD, Darren McFadden and every other Raider at all costs ... Eddie Lacy was a rabid pitbull in one series in St. Louis. On seven touches he totaled 47 yards, showcasing demoralizing power, speed on the edge and dependable hands. He should be the last top-tiered RB drafted before the Megatron, Jimmy Grahm, Peyton dilemma begins ... Bishop Sankey is WAY overvalued. His main competition, Shonn Greene, ran hard inside tallying 46 yards on nine carries in 'Nawlins. Worse, Dexter McCluster replaced Greene on pass downs in the first-team lineup. The rookie's fumble lost also did him no favors. He's not a top-50 pick folks. Not even close ... Disdain for Gio Bernard is laughable. He's like a buttered turkey in the open field – short, stocky and incredibly slick. His 3.1 ypc was bland, but he was the primary, first-team rusher at the goal-line versus the Jets, finding the end zone once. Jeremy Hill's impact appears to be overblown ... Bad back? Crippled? Ready for retirement? Tony Romo silenced his critics, exuding vintage elusiveness and accuracy while going 4-of-5 for 80 yards and a TD against Baltimore. Because of Dallas' probable bottom-dwelling defense, he should land inside the QB top-10 for the seventh time in eight years. You're robbing fools blind at his 75-plus ADP ... While everyone salivates over Hunter, the Steelers' Markus Wheaton, who had three catches for 15 yards and a TD on a beautiful corner route against the Bills, is another second-year wideout to monitor. He's locked in as WR2 opposite Antonio Brown, a position Emmanuel Sanders posted a 112-67-732-6 line in last year. He should notch occasionally useful numbers as a WR4/WR5 in 12-team leagues ...

Hakeem Nicks did something worthwhile? Armageddon is near. Motivated against his old team, he caught all five targeted passes for 53 yards, working primarily in the short-field. I will say it again, for some sick reason I believe there's gas left in the still-only-26-year-old's tank ... Eli Manning is 2-for-9 for six yards through two preseason appearances. Uncle Rico has a better chance of completing 70 percent of his attempts throwing a football "over them mountains." I still feel Victor Cruz will bounce back and finish as a high-end WR2, but temper expectations for Rueben Randle. He will be wildly erratic ... Jonathan Grimes is the appropriate handcuff for Arian Foster, but keep close watch on Alfred Blue. The rookie from LSU, who trucked over Falcons working with the Texans' first-team inside the red-zone, has the size (6-foot-2, 223 pounds) and brutalizing running style to be a highly effective goal-line back ... What's scarier: Sammy Watkins injuring his ribs or E.J. Manuel again looking like re-fried garbage? Regarding the former, the receiver revealed post-game he should be "fine." However, the latter inspires minimal confidence. Through three exhibition games, the vanilla QB has completed a mere 59.5 percent of his attempts with one pick and zero TDs. Again, Watkins is a dynamic weapon, but the Bills' reserved offense and Manuel's inadequacies are substantial knocks. The WR is not worth a top-75 pick ...

Interesting note, Brandon Lloyd was the third WR ahead of Steve Johnson with the first team. The 33-year-old, who chose a zombie role in a straight-to-DVD movie over football last year, was targeted three times, catching one pass for seven yards. His ball-adjustment and downfield skills are still rock solid. Keep an eye on his snap count next week ... If the preseason is any indication, Peyton and Demaryius Thomas may connect 367 times this year. No. 18 has been locked in on the AFC's best target. Come year's end, odds are favorable DT will be fantasy's most valuable WR ... Jonathan Stewart carried the rock mulitple times and didn't shatter into a million pieces? Crazy. The fragile rusher ran tough, churned the legs and totaled 26 yards on four carries with two TDs against KC. His 125-plus ADP leaves plenty of room for profit, but he'll find a new, inventive way to break your heart. 
