August 10, 2014 5:24 PM

PRESEASON WEEK 1 FLAMES

Carlos Hyde, SF, RB – With Frank Gore resting his weary bones, the former Buckeye was given an opportunity to work with the first team. Boy, he took advantage. On five carries against the Ravens he totaled 39 yards, displaying the inside power, vision and edge burst that helped him tally a jaw-dropping 7.1 yards per carry last season in Columbus. His most impressive run of the night was a 19-yard off-tackle dash in which he showed quickness to the near sideline (WATCH IT HERE). Old Man River will continue to tote the lion’s share, but reports Hyde will be worked in right away bears much weight. From the get go he should log roughly 8-10 carries per game. The armored tank is one Gore tendon tweak away from becoming a legit RB1. His 121.6 ADP in Yahoo leagues is highway robbery. 

[Smack talk season is back at Yahoo Sports: Sign up and play free Fantasy Football!]

Johnny Manziel, Cle, QB – Get your $20 bills ready. The much publicized party animal is about to make his mark on the fantasy sports world. Really?! Yes, really. Seeing extensive action with the second team in Detroit, Manziel exhibited noticeable pocket poise, a strong, accurate arm and his trademark scrambling ability (7-for-11 63 pass yds, 27 rush yds). As expected, he worked almost exclusively out of the shotgun, running a read-option base at times. Despite a couple of errant throws (and devastating drops, Miles Austin), Brian Hoyer was adequate functioning with the first team, but it's clear he doesn't possess the improvisational skills, zip or athleticism of his understudy. Whispers from Browns central have Manziel now ahead of Hoyer. If that holds true, the rookie could make a RGIII-like impact this season, with or without Josh Gordon. His effectiveness on the ground should not be overlooked. Recall, even a woefully pedestrian Terrelle Pryor was a top-16 fantasy producer among QBs as a starter last year. How? Rushing stats. A top-12 campaign for JFF (127.2 Yahoo ADP) isn't some whiskey-induced illusion. He could be a significantly cheaper version of Cam Newton. 

Rashad Jennings, NYG, RB – Five carries, 85 yards and a 73-yard touchdown. Silence haters. For the past couple weeks, a social media war regarding Jennings' draft day worth has raged. Andre Williams' emergence in the Hall of Fame game only ramped up disagreement. However, his sterling production against Saturday versus Pittsburgh should quell the anti-Jennings crowd, for now. Yes, Jabba the Hutt could've fit through the hole on his 73-yard TD gallup, but the acceleration and breakaway speed he exhibted opened eyes (WATCH IT HERE). Again, for the millionth time, he is a viable RB2 in 12-team leagues. If that's not obvious, you're living in a fairy tale land of talking dogs, flying pigs and All-Pro Tebows. Williams will replace him at times inside the red-zone, but the veteran's strong marks in pass-blocking, receiving and ball security has him on a very long leash in Tom Coughlin's mind. Scrawl it in blood, he will be a 17-19 touch per game workhorse finishing in range of 1,350-1,450 combined yards with 6-8 touchdowns. At his 60.3 Yahoo ADP, he's still outrageously cheap. 

Bernard Pierce, Bal, RB – When Pierce came out of Temple in 2012, many scouts compared him to Arian Foster. His ability to plant, cut and accelerate upfield labeled him a prototype zone-blocking back. Involved in a traditional power scheme his first two seasons he never really showcased his RB2 potential. However, Thursday night against San Fran, he had the look of a top-20 rusher. His final numbers weren't spectacular (10-37-1), but when working behind the Ravens' first-string offensive line, his high comfort level in Gary Kubiak's one-cut-and-go scheme was clear. With Ray Rice suspended the first two weeks of the regular season, Pierce will have every chance to secure the upperhand. If he continues to run well, it's quite possible he, and not Rice, will tote the heavy side of a likely 60-40 split, including goal-line touches. Don't expect his sale price (125.1 Yahoo ADP) to last much longer. 

Jay Cutler, Chi, QB – Surgical precision. Not to inflate His Smugness' ego any more, but that description is fitting for his brief, yet sensational performance against the Eagles. Cutler was marvelous on his 13 attempts, completing nine passes for 85 yards and a TD. He spread the ball around, made smart decisions and resembled the QB many are predicting could flirt with top-five numbers at the position this year. His situation is quite favorable. Brandon Marshall, Alshon Jeffery, Martellus Bennett and Matt Forte make up arguably the deadliest arsenal in the league. Add that to a still sketchy Bears defense, and it's entirely possible this will finally be the year he delivers. Then again, Cutler does tend to find new, creative ways to underachieve. Still, for those who choose to follow a patience approach at QB, he's well worth the minimal risk (100.2 Yahoo ADP, QB14).

Brandin Cooks, NO, WR – Before he logged a single preseason snap considerable hyperbole was written about the Mighty Mouse. After his initial performance, the build up was completely warranted. Though he clashed with mostly second and third-string Rams, the receiver displayed the versatility, field awareness and speed many in Saints camp have been awestruck by. The highlight on his five-catch, 55-yard night came on a simple out route. He caught a well-placed Ryan Griffin pass, cut on a dime, sprinted toward the end-zone and left corner E.J. Gaines in the dust en route to a 25-yard touchdown (WATCH IT HERE). This cannot be overstated, Cooks will make a sizable immediate impact as a WR3 in 12-team leagues. His 111.8 ADP in Yahoo leagues is laughable. 

John Brown, Ari, WR – He shares the same name as a violent abolitionist best known for making Kansas bleed. Soon, the latest, and slightly less crazy, version will gash NFL defenses. According to local reports, the unheralded rookie has put on a show in Cardinals training camp. Though he lacks size (5-foot-10, 180-pounds) his blazing 4.34 speed, fluidity and route polish have greatly impressed Bruce Arians and his staff. Seeing action on both first and second teams – Michael Floyd and Ted Ginn were in street clothes – the bursty target grabbed a team-high five passes for 87 yards against Houston. He's still fourth on the depth-chart, but his consistency, unfazed demeanor and wheels should elevate him to No. 3 behind Larry Fitzgerald and Floyd in short order. In an underrated Cardinals offense, he will be at least deep-league rosterable at some point this year. 

View photo
.
