2013-11-14

Matt Ryan, Atl, QB (53%)
Matchup: at TB
Thought to be a viable Super Bowl contender, the Falcons have crashed and burned, victimized by crippling injuries and a rancid defense. As a result, Ryan, widely perceived on Draft Day as a top-10 QB option, has fallen on hard times, slowly fading into the background at an overloaded position. Overall, he's the No. 13 ranked QB in per game average in standard settings, but his 18.5 per game output since Week 6 checks in at No. 24 among signal callers. Yack. On paper, Ryan's matchup against one-win Tampa is fairly favorable. Outside Darrelle Revis, the Bucs' secondary is a mishmash of mediocrity. Leonard Johnson and Jonathan Banks have allowed a combined 102.8 QB rating to their assignments this season. Overall, the Bucs have surrendered the ninth-most fantasy points to QBs. And back in Week 7, Ryan torched them for 273 yards and three touchdowns. However, Tony Gonzalez's availability remains cloudy due to a toe injury and, despite playing on 55-of-58 snaps, Roddy White continues to resemble an ironing board in human form – stiff and rigid. Add that to a nonexistent ground game, and Ryan has 'Lame' written all over him.
Fearless Forecast: 241 passing yards, 1 passing touchdown, 2 interceptions, 5 rushing yards, 14.5 fantasy points

Eddie Lacy, GB, RB (88%)
Matchup: at NYG
Lacy, taking on the appearance of a monster-truck tire preseason, was the butt of endless 'fat' jokes, another possible Alabama bust at RB. However, now lean, mean and pounding for the green, he's bowled over and through would-be tacklers with the strength of a raging bull. Since overtaking the lead role full-time in Week 5, he's averaged a healthy 4.3 yards per carry, 112.6 total yards per game and scored three touchdowns, production good enough to categorize him a RB1 in 12-team leagues during that stretch. However, outside overcoming a difficult matchup at Baltimore Week 6, Lacy has faced a string of favorable run defenses (Det, Cle, Min, Chi and Phi). His Week 11 tussle with a rejuvenated Giants front will be his toughest assignment in weeks. Blasted earlier this season, the G-Men have drowned rushers in a sea of blue the past five weeks. Marquee names Adrian Peterson, Matt Forte and LeSean McCoy generated only modest numbers against them. Over that span, they've surrendered just 3.13 yards per carry and 59.5 yards per game to RBs. With Scott Tolzien under center, Lacy will be the center of Mike McCarthy's game-plan. However, based on the unsavory matchup, expect an uncomfortable number of three-yard plods.
Fearless Forecast: 22 carries, 78 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 7 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 10.0 fantasy points

Knowshon Moreno, Den, RB (86%)
Matchup: vs. KC
Preseason, fantasy pundits and novices alike were head over heels for Montee Ball. The Wisconsin product, who was compared to Terrell Davis by John Elway, was sure to distance himself from the veteran and buttery-fingered Ronnie Hillman in short order. Because of Knowshon's excellent pass-blocking skills, reliable hands and strong 2012 finish, yours truly and esteemed colleague Scott Pianowski refused to follow the flock. Nearly 900 total yards, nine touchdowns and a top-10 ranking later, we were right, for once. As much admiration I have for the guy, this week's matchup is a daunting one. Yes, the Chiefs have yet to face an offense the caliber of Denver's, but their defense is good, really good. LeSean McCoy, Chris Johnson and C.J. Spiller are the only rushers to register double-digit fantasy days against KC. Overall, the Lorax's bunch have given up just two touchdowns to the position in nine games. He'll still deliver quality numbers in PPR leagues, but given the opponent and the fact he's losing snaps to Ball, Moreno may suffer in standard settings.
Fearless Forecast: 15 carries, 48 rushing yards, 4 receptions, 32 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 11.0 fantasy points

T.Y. Hilton, Ind, WR (83%)
Matchup: at Ten
Over the past two weeks, owners who booked a room at the Hilton were rewarded with an upgrade to the presidential suite. Picking up the slack left when Reggie Wayne suffered a season-ending knee injury, he's proven to be more than just a long-bomb specialist, grabbing 14 passes for 251 yards and three touchdowns. No doubt, Hilton, now drawing opponents' best cover man, has overachieved. He's run sharp routes, beaten press coverage and smothered toasted DBs in butter. Yes, he's been virtually unstoppable, but against arguably the nastiest secondary in the league, reality awaits. No defense has surrendered fewer fantasy points to wide receivers than Tennessee. On the year, it's given up only two wide receiver touchdowns and a pair of 80-yard receivers. Stifling. Alterraun Verner and Jason McCourty, who rank No. 2 and No. 9 respectively in pass coverage according to Pro Football Focus, are relentless, tenacious ballhawks. Verner has been especially assaulting, allowing a 23.8 QB rating and 40.5 catch rate to his assignments. Hilton has overcome difficult matchups before, but with Trent Richardson scoring elsewhere, the Titans focus on the pass and squeeze the clamp.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 67 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 10.4 fantasy points

Victor Cruz, NYG, WR (88%)
Matchup: vs. GB
Way too often this season the Giants' salsa man has packed little statistical spice. A function of Eli Manning's gross inconsistency, largely caused by an increase in pocket pressure (2012 pressure%age: 29.8, 2013: 41.9), Cruz has been the epitome of boom/bust this season. Six times this season, he's failed to surpass the nine-point fantasy mark in standard leagues. For the PPR masses, he's achieved 'Flame' status four times. With Clay Mathews back in action and bludgeoning opponents with a bowling ball, the Packers defense is finally starting to get healthy. However, likely down top corner Casey Heyward (hamstring) the secondary is still slowly recuperating. Still, Green Bay has defended the slot well this season. If it ratchets up pressure and keeps Eli flummoxed, odds are strong Cruz's string of bland performances extends to six.
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 54 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 8.4 fantasy points
