2013-08-25

Kenbrell Thompkins, NE, WR – Barely a mention on the TV crawl when signed as an undrafted free agent a few months back, Thompkins is quickly becoming to receivers what Alfred Morris was to rushers a season ago. Terribly underused at Cincinnati, the rookie has made seismic waves this preseason. He's not the biggest, strongest or fastest target, but he might be the savviest. His ankle-breaking cuts and superb route-running skills are quite possibly New England's best, even better than Wes Welker-clone Danny Amendola's. With the veteran unavailable Thursday in Detroit, Thompkins took the opportunity to showcase his wares. The lone highlight on an otherwise abysmal night for the Pats (four turnovers), he was targeted a team-high 12 times, hauling in a game-best eight receptions for 116 yards. The youngster again ran sharp, precise routes executing flawlessly on designed sideline outs, streaks and posts across the middle. Most impressively, he humiliated corners Chris Houston and Darius Slay off the line, hitting the juke button to beat press coverage. It can't be overstated, the kid has not only locked down the 'X' role in an explosive offense, he possibly could emerge as the most coveted rookie, regardless of position, this season. Keep in mind the guy throwing to him, Tom Brady, is still one of the league's most accurate quarterbacks (65.6 completion percentage since '07). At this point, he may exceed my original 65-800-5 fearless forecast. Confidently reach for his services a round or two early (110.6 ADP, WR44).

Reggie Bush, Det, RB – Coerce a random person. Force him/her to sit firmly on a hot poker within eyeshot of a swimming pool. Then release the adrenaline-rushing hostage into the wild. That’s what Bush looked like Thursday against New England. On designed screens and swings, which the Pats bought into hook, line and sinker, Matthew Stafford torched the blitz, connecting with Bush numerous times in the short-field. On his biggest gain of the night (67 yards), he showcased vintage elusiveness and explosion. As stated previously, Bush, assuming he staves off the injury imp, will finish inside the RB top-12 in PPR formats. His TD total probably won't surpass 6-8, but at least 1,400 total yards and 75 receptions are in the offing. If you're in a receptions-friendly format, don't let him escape Round 2 (20.1 ADP, RB16).

Christine Michael, Sea, RB – The depth Seattle has at running back is an embarrassment of riches. Marshawn Lynch, Robert Turbin and the electric rookie from Texas A&M are all able-bodied rushers capable of shouldering sizable workloads. Taken in the second round of last April's draft, Michael, pound-for-pound, might be the purest runner from this year's rookie class. He's well-built (5-foot-10, 220-pounds), highly explosive, decisive and undeterred. Though he's faced mostly scrubs this preseason, his 6.8 yards per carry average on 27 totes has definitely stirred the drink. Without question Lynch will run until the Skittles stop flowing, but if derailed by injury, Michael would likely leapfrog Turbin into the starting lineup. Under that scenario, a top-10 RB output wouldn't be far-fetched. Keep in mind the 'Hawks' offensive line is one of the league's best. Mark my words, in the very near future Michael will be in contention for a rushing title. He's that ridiculous.

David Wilson, NYG, RB – If you plan to purchase Wilson sometime in the near future, you may need to prostitute yourself on the nearest street corner to raise funds necessary to afford his services. After ripping off an 84-yard TD scamper on his first carry of Saturday night's scrimmage against the Jets, his value instantly marched northward. Still, slow your roll. The sophomore rusher is a star-in-the-making, but don't automatically assume he'll morph into an every-down man-crush. Andre Brown, who's a superior pass-blocker and receiver, will keep Wilson somewhat under wraps. View him as the NFC's version of Chris Johnson. When he's hitting home runs, he'll be spectacular, but when he's not, he'll post rather mundane fantasy totals. His explosiveness is alluring, just don't overspend in non-keeper formats (ADP: 30.3, RB19). Roughly 1,300-1,400 total yards with 5-7 TDs are in my fearless forecast.

Justin Blackmon, Jax, WR – Generally overlooked by the average drafter, the mouthy wide receiver again stood out of the crowd, this time against Philly. Targeted a team-high seven times, he pulled in four receptions for 50 yards. His night was punctuated with a 17-yard TD grab from Chad Henne. Ignoring his prima dona attitude, Blackmon is an extremely talented receiver who can run every route in the tree. Though he lacks an extra gear, his physicality at the point of attack and sharp breaks allow him to gain separation. Because of his four-game suspension and unappealing QB situation, he's heavily discounted in all formats. However, if sipping margaritas in your free agent pool anytime after pick No. 120, toss him a line. Once eligible to return, he should pay a handsome dividend. Recall he was the sixth-best fantasy WR from Weeks 11-17 last year.

Knowshon Moreno, Den, RB – Breathe. That's all that was necessary for Moreno to reenter the starting running back competition. Over much of the first quarter, Ronnie Hillman was a man on a mission. He ran aggressively, found cut-back lanes and consumed sizable chunks of real estate (9 touches, 49 yards). Unfortunately, he fumbled yet again, his third of the preseason. Montee Ball, though effective in the pass game, inched his way to lackluster numbers. He did bull into the end-zone against Rams backups in the third quarter, but his uninspiring 3.1 yards per carry once again left a lot to be desired. Moreno, meanwhile, didn't enter the game until the second half, but proved productive. Overall, he tallied 75 yards from scrimmage on just eight touches. His knees may be held together with chewing gum and duct tape, but the passed over veteran is back in contention. Terrific in pass pro, reliable as a receiver and occasional impactful between the tackles, he may just be the most well-rounded RB currently on the Broncos roster. His experience and quality play in six starts last year (110.8 typg, 3 TDs) may elevate him into the captain's chair. Time will tell, but considering his cheap price tag (ADP: 147.2, RB54), you have little to lose.
