2013-08-25

DeAngelo Williams, Car, RB – Admittedly, I'm a Williams fanboy. Ever since the 'Little Napoleon' conquered opponents in 2008, he's owned my admiration. However, bold declarations claiming he'll be a reliable RB2 this season need to cease. Used sparingly this preseason, he's appeared sluggish, well-aged and generally unexciting. His 49 yards on 17 carries (2.8 ypc) is Exhibit A. Jonathan Stewart's murky early-season availability is a plus, but don't expect D-Will to suddenly turn back the clock. Under new offensive coordinator Mike Shula, who coached QBs in Charlotte last year, the offense will change little. Mike Tolbert will fill the Stewart void and Cam Newton will call his number often inside the 10, leaving only in-between-the-20s scraps for Williams. An uptick in touches from last year (11.6 per game) is probable, but he won't be a 20-carry workhorse – 12-15 touches per game seems realistic. Worse yet, Carolina opens at home against run-stiff Seattle. Unfortunately, Williams is nothing more than a marginal FLEX back in 12-team and deeper leagues.

Stevie Johnson, Buf, WR – With E.J. Manuel recovering from minor knee surgery, Kevin Kolb was gifted an opportunity to state his case for the starting gig against Washington. Naturally, the quarterback, who embarrassingly got hurt slipping on a practice field mat earlier in camp, exited stage left with concussion-like symptoms. Given the rash of setbacks impacting Buffalo QBs, it's entirely possible third-stringer Jeff Tuel, an undrafted rookie out of Washington St., could take first-team snaps Week 1 versus New England. Tuel flashes solid mechanics and touch, but would be a deer in headlights against a strong blitz. If Bill Belichick gets the opportunity to throw the kitchen sink at him, you know he will, likely limiting Johnson's value as a receiver. Because of the Bills' ongoing defensive woes, Stevie has reasonable odds of tallying his fourth-straight 1,000-yard season. However, even with the changing of the guard at head coach, red-zone targets (16 in 2012) and subsequently TDs for the receiver will be a rarity. Spend your draft picks elsewhere. Golden Tate, Mike Williams, Chris Givens and the aforementioned Thompkins are more attractive options going some 15-20 picks after Johnson (86.7 ADP, WR34).

Miami HC Joe Philbin/ GM Jeff Ireland – Sherlock Holmes would agree, the guys calling the shots in Miami have no bleeping clue. As reported late late week, rumors of a full-blown RBBC on South Beach made the rounds in Fantasyland, a mind-blowing development. On Saturday against Tampa, Lamar Miller clearly showed why he deserves to tote the lion's share. As he's done often this preseason, he displayed better speed, cutting ability and vision than the vanilla Daniel Thomas. Overall, he averaged 4.4 yards per carry. Thomas, meanwhile netted a whopping 0.4 ypc. Inspiring. The latter could see action on third-downs, but if Philbin and Ireland pull-head-from-posterior and figure out the remedial math, the former should dominate early-down and possibly goal-line work. Miller has logged a number of touches inside the five in exhibition play. That happens and he would emerge a fringe top-20 RB. Joe and Jeff, please, do the right thing.

Chris Ivory, NYJ, RB – No shock to anyone, the Jets are again the laughing stock of the league. Geno Smith is going all Dan Orlovsky in the back of end-zones. Mark Sanchez is dealing with a bum shoulder, grizzly toenail and sprained cranium. And Santonio Holmes has the pain threshold of a Brooklyn hipster. For the harsh local media, the Jets' on-field depravity is the gift that keeps on giving. Unfortunately, that's not the case for Ivory. Used only sporadically this preseason, the ex-Saint, who the Jets paid a fourth-round pick to acquire last April, hasn't moved the meter. Bilal Powell, meanwhile, has. The 'backup' rusher has outgained, outplayed and generally run circles around Ivory this summer. Given the alleged starter's injury-ridden past and ineffectiveness in the pass game, his role could be smaller than you think. New York's run-blocking should again be good, but against fully stacked lines second-tier runs will be few and far between. Shane Vereen, Andre Brown and Ben Tate, all going after Ivory in average drafts, are better options.

Arizona Cardinals O-Line – The Cards' trench hogs, ramrodded continuously by the media and fantasy community last year, underwent an offseason makeover under new head coach Bruce Arians and freshman GM Steve Keim. Sadly, the most prized piece of that rebuilding project, rookie guard Jonathan Cooper, suffered a broken leg against San Diego, ending his season. Prior to Cooper's exit, the line showed measurable improvement, particularly in run-blocking. Blocks were held. Lanes were created. And on 13 carries Rashard Mendenhall resembled the top-seven fantasy rusher from 2010 (79 yards, 6.1 ypc). Not all hope is lost. Backup Paul Fanaika has reportedly had an outstanding camp, but the veteran lineman, playing for his fourth team in three years, has enormous shoes to fill. Because of the expected high-volume, Mendy is still a top-notch value pick in the middle rounds (66.1 ADP, RB31), but he remains more FLEX than RB2 material.

QUICK HITTERS: As the fantasy community mourns the loss of Le'Veon, another Bell, Joique, who's gained much praise from Jim Schwartz this preseason, is quietly making a strong sleeper case. Mikel Leshoure, who tallied the most rush attempts without a 20-yard run a season ago, worked behind the Wayne St. product for the third-straight week. Bush's true backup totaled 101 yards on just seven touches, displaying excellent burst, interior toughness and versatility. If Reggie goes down, he will be a top-20 RB in PPR ... Bernard Pierce may want to erase Thursday's misstep against Carolina from his collective memory. His 10 carries for seven yards and an awful fumble lost were puke-worthy. Tag-team partner Ray Rice, meanwhile, was respectable totaling 62 yards on 16 carries. He also punched in a one-yard score. Better days are ahead for Pierce, who should net 10-15 touches per game, but Rice is unquestionably in the driver's seat, including goal-line touches ...Terrell Pryor (7-9, 93 yds, TD, 37 rush yds, TD) is quickly becoming a passer of interest in two-QB setups. His dual-threat abilities and improved polish were impressive against a mixture of Bears regulars/second-stringers. Similar to E.J. Manuel, he's worth a flier in challenging formats. Sitting duck, Matt Flynn, is an abomination and will be lucky to stave off the Grim Reaper before Week 5. Plus, given how atrocious the Raiders are defensively, Pryor could become a legit Garbage Time All-Star ... C.J. Spiller scared the bejesus out of prospective investors after dropping to the ground and grabbing his knee post-TD. Thankfully it was merely a flesh wound (spike to knee). The consensus top-three pick reentered the game against Washington finishing with 40 yards on eight carries. Fred Jackson, meanwhile, looked every bit of 32-years-old ...

Similar to Michael, Roy Helu is quickly rising up the handcuff ranks. Finally healthy, he was sensational against the Bills exhibiting marvelous cuts and acceleration in the 'Skins' zone-blocking scheme. In total he compiled 86 yards on 14 touches. If the incumbent suffered a devastating injury, he would be a strong candidate to notch RB top-15 numbers ... Add Julius Thomas to the long list of upside TEs. Local beat-writers have sung the his praises in recent weeks predicting a breakout season. Based on his terrific blend of size, speed and athleticism combined with Peyton Manning's growing confidence in him, Broncos scribes could be onto something. Targeted six times against St. Louis, his time may indeed be now. Deep leaguers, circle the late-round lottery ticket on your cheat sheet ... As discussed previously, Chip Kelly's offense is tailored perfectly for Michael Vick's skill set, but the real reason why No. 7 will reascend to fantasy greatness: Philly overly generous defense. A blind basset hound could rack substantial yards on that unit. Jordan Todman's gaudy numbers Saturday are proof (8-105-1). Shootouts are a foregone conclusion for Vick this year ... Maybe he wasn't pressing the issue, but Jamaal Charles looked a step slower against Pittsburgh (9 touches, 14 yards). The next two weeks will be a godsend for his tender foot ...From the 'Please don't seduce me again' file, Ryan Mathews is teasing the fantasy community to the best of his ability. Though he lost a fumble at the goal-line, the rusher pounded the line of scrimmage, sprinted through holes and showed renewed nimbleness against Arizona. Including Saturday's clash in the desert, he's averaged a stout 4.6 yards per carry this preseason. Behind an improved offensive line, in run-blocking terms, he remains one of the best bargains in the biz (ADP 48.5, RB26). Bury the hatchet.
