2013-11-07

Tony Romo, Dal, QB (76%)
Matchup: at NO
Whenever a fantasy owner sees a matchup against the Saints salivary glands begin to work overtime. Based on New Orleans' recent history, the Bayou Boys are generally soft defensively, the perfect ingredient for triggering a shootout. However, this season, that belief is steeped in fiction, not fact. Defensive coordinator Rob Ryan has done a masterful job transitioning the Fleur De Lis from a forgiving 4-3 to an assaulting 3-4 defense. On the season, 'Nawlins has forced nearly two turnovers per game while netting 3.25 sacks per contest. Against a QB known for crumbling under intense heat, expect Ryan to bring the house early and often. Under pressure 35.2% of the time this season, Romo has completed just 48.6% of his attempts in those situations. Still, he does deserve credit. Thanks to an atrocious Dallas D, he's failed to reach the 20-fantasy point threshold only twice this season (at KC, vs. Wash). However, only Tennessee and Carolina (7) have given up fewer passing touchdowns than New Orleans (8). Matt Ryan and Jay Cutler are the only passers to register multi-TD games against it. In what will surely be a raucous road environment, keep your expectations for Romo tempered.
Fearless Forecast: 260 passing yards, 2 passing touchdowns, 2 interceptions, 7 rushing yards, 19.5 fantasy points

Giovani Bernard, Cin, RB (63%)
Matchup: at Bal
Cruisin' down South Beach last week, the youngster broke ankles and picked up points in his minivan, torching the Dolphins for 104 total yards and a pair of scores, his finest fantasy performance of the season. Gio, one of my favorite RBs in this year's draft class, is a dynamic talent blessed with an extra gear, sick juking ability and soft hands. He continues to work in tandem with BenJarvus Green-Ellis, but usually makes the most of his 13-15 touches per game. This week, however, presents a daunting task. No defense has surrendered fewer fantasy points to RBs than Baltimore. On the season, the Ravens have allowed just one RB touchdown, 3.67 yards per carry and 25.8 receiving yards to rushers. According to Pro Football Focus, Terrell Suggs and Elvis Dumervil rank No. 1 and No. 13, respectively, against the run, combining for 45 stops. Because of his pass-catching upside he's still a viable option in PPR settings. However, for the standard leaguers in attendance, he's likely to generate a rather unproductive line.
Fearless Forecast: 8 carries, 31 rushing yards, 4 receptions, 22 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 8.3 fantasy points

Fred Jackson, Buf, RB (70%)
Matchup: at Pit
Typically, when RBs blow out the candles on the big 3-0, they go the way of that Nazi-sympathizer dude who drank from the wrong cup in "Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade." Over the years, the list of rushers who did exactly that is rather lengthy. However, Jackson is an exception. Thought to be decomposed preseason, the geriatric back has played heroically while C.J. Spiller has battled through a high-ankle sprain. He's averaged 12.2 fantasy points per game in standard leagues, good for No. 13 among RBs. Though I greatly respect Jackson, this is the week he posts only modest numbers. Yes, Pittsburgh was pounded last Sunday giving up a franchise-record 55 points to the Patriots. But as Troy Polamalu admitted on 'The Dan Patrick Show' earlier this week, the Steelers' mistakes are fixable. Desperate for a W and at home, the local team busts open a can. More the Soft than the Steel Curtain in the trenches this season, Pittsburgh has yielded the eighth-most fantasy points to RBs. That stat, however, is a bit misleading. Rushing touchdowns allowed have been an issue, but it's given up a bland 4.08 yards per carry to plowshares. Toss in Spiller's sudden revival and expected increased role along with Buffalo's uncertainty at QB, and Jackson has reasonable odds of finishing outside the RB top-20 in Week 10.
Fearless Forecast: 13 carries, 47 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 16 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 8.5 fantasy points

Jordy Nelson, GB, WR (95%)
Matchup: vs. Phi
Without a doubt, Nelson is one of the finest deep-ball weapons in the game today. He possesses the necessary jets, ball-tracking skills and route-running ability to toast the competition. However, going from Aaron Rodgers, arguably the best pure passer in the league, to Seneca Wallace, an elderly vagabond who hasn't been relevant since 2011, is akin to dumping Olivia Wilde for the profuse-sweating woman that works the late-night Taco Bell drive-thru. Fourthmeal anyone? Wallace was an absolute hot mess after replacing Rodgers early in the first half last Monday night versus Chicago. He averaged a wretched 6.0 yards per attempt, completed only 57.9% of his attempts and was sacked four times. The matchup is incredibly favorable. No defense has surrendered more fantasy points to wide receivers this season than the Eagles. Corner Cary Williams ranks No. 101 out of 107 in pass coverage according to Pro Football Focus. But the Philly secondary, particularly Bradley Fletcher, has shown improvement of late. Against the Giants and Raiders, the Eagles' past two opponents, no wide receiver reached the end-zone. The circumstances are unfortunate, but it's doubtful Wallace exceeds 25 pass attempts in Week 10. Expect more Eddie Lacy/James Starks, less Jordy.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 72 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 10.9 fantasy points

Mike Wallace, Mia, WR (67%)
Matchup: at TB
Revis Island is far from a tropical paradise. Finally back to doing what he does best pressing opposing teams' top target, the corner, the No. 1 rated cover man in the league according to PFF, will likely smother Wallace on Sunday. Thrown at 30 times this season, he's conceded only 7.3 yards per catch to his assignments. Golden Tate, victimized by Darrelle Revis last week, was limited to just three catches for 29 yards. Wallace has made his displeasure known repeatedly this season, expressing his desire to be the featured receiver nearly every week. As a result, he's attracted plenty of targets, particularly since his public outcry four weeks ago. Since Week 5, he's garnered 11.0 targets, 5.2 receptions and 76.0 yards per game with a pair of touchdowns. However, because of who will likely shadow him, it's entirely possibly he'll log just a handful of targets this week. In a game no person outside the Sunshine State will care to witness, Brian Hartline and Charles Clay will be the apple of Ryan Tannehill's eye.
Fearless Forecast: 3 receptions, 32 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 5.4 fantasy points
