2013-12-05

Cam Newton, Car, QB (85%)
Matchup: at NO
Embarrassing. Humiliating. Sorrowful. No matter how you describe it, the Saints were handed their heads last Monday in Seattle. Dominated from gun-to-gun, they executed miserably on both sides of the ball, undeniably the club's worst performance in the Sean Payton era. But nothing heals wounds quicker than a little home cooking. In a game with major playoff-seeding implications, New Orleans' "Dude," Rob Ryan, will crush white Russians, drop approximately 136 F-bombs and draw up a brilliant, attacking defensive game-plan to cool off one of the game's hottest QBs. Since Week 8 Cam has sailed past the 20-point fantasy mark five times, ranking No. 4 among signal callers during that stretch in per game average. A script copied from last season, he's again peaking at the right time, exhibiting improved accuracy and decision-making while moving the chains with his legs. He'll do some damage on the ground, but expect the Saints' stiff secondary to keep him in check vertically. Only Matt Ryan, Jay Cutler and Russell Wilson have exceeded 200 passing yards and thrown for two or more touchdowns against 'Nawlins this year. Most discouraging, the fluer-de-lis has conceded a lowly 6.08 yards per pass attempt at home. This week, Superman gets exposed to kyrptonite.
Fearless Forecast: 203 passing yards, 1 passing touchdowns, 2 interceptions, 46 rushing yards, 16.7 fantasy points

Frank Gore, SF, RB (83%)
Matchup: vs. Sea
Despite his advanced age (30), in running back years, and high odometer reading, the king of consistency is on pace to post his seventh 1,000-yard campaign since 2006. Though running behind one of the league's most impenetrable offensive lines, he hasn't plowed over would-be tacklers similar to years past. He's averaged a meager 4.04 yards per carry and gained just 51.5% of his yards after contact, steep drop-offs from a season ago (4.71 ypc, 56.2 percent). Seattle has been a bit Jekyll/Hyde defending the run this season, evident in the midseason thumpings doled out by Zac Stacy (25-134-0) and Mike James (28-158-0). However, over the past three weeks the 'Hawks have sharpened their talons. Led by RB-eater Brandon Mebane, they've surrendered just 59.0 rushing yards per game, 4.02 yards per carry and zero touchdowns to plowshares. Gore, who totaled a wretched 30 yards on 10 touches Week 2 against Seattle, should shoulder a workload in range of 15-20 carries in the rematch. Still, searing off last week's utter annihilation of New Orleans, the 'Hawks D-line dominates.
Fearless Forecast: 17 carries, 60 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 6 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 8.1 fantasy points

Chris Johnson, Ten, RB (84%)
Matchup: at Den
The league leader in throbbing headaches and carries for one, zero or negative yards, has benefited greatly with Ryan Fitzpatrick under center. A featured check-down weapon for the veteran QB, he's complemented his rushing stats nicely with excitable numbers for the PPR masses. During that stretch, Johnson has averaged 4.53 yards per carry, 101.8 total yards and 3.6 receptions per game. He's also cut rug in the end-zone five times. Undoubtedly, he's more trustworthy now than earlier in the season, but this week's road trip to Mile High should have owners thinking twice. Though Von Miller has bolstered an already solid defensive line, the Broncos have allowed the ninth-most fantasy points to RBs since Week 8. Still, against Tennessee's stout secondary, I fully expect Knowshon Moreno and Montee Ball to be featured heavily this week, eating yards and clock at will. If Denver builds an early lead, Johnson could get lost in the shuffle. He's still a top-20 asset in PPR settings, but given the expected game-flow, Johnson could underachieve in standard formats.
Fearless Forecast: 16 carries, 61 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 17 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns

Demaryius Thomas, Den, WR (98%)
Matchup: vs. Ten
The Denver pass game is the Price is Right 'Big Wheel' of fantasy. Spin it and you could land in the Showcase Showdown ... or back in the audience with a disgusted look on your face. Clearly shown in Eric Decker's four-touchdown scoregasm last week, the player that cashes big is highly unpredictable on a week-in, week-out basis. Based on the unfriendly matchup, however, I suspect those trusting Wes Welker, Julius Thomas and the Broncos' two-pronged rushing attack will walk away winners. Stated repeatedly in this space, Alterraun Verner and Jason McCourty makeup the wickedest secondary in the league. Combined they've surrendered a 49.1 catch rate and 59.0 QB rating to their assignments. Overall, WR1s are averaging just 44.4 yards per game against them. Most impressively, DeAndre Hopkins and Jerricho Cotchery are the only WRs to cross the chalk versus Tennessee the entire year. Nasty. The Titans have yet to face a passer the caliber of Peyton Manning, but with possible snow and game-time temps expected to be in the low 20s, the MVP frontrunner, who admits he has difficulty gripping the football in cold conditions, could get iced. Keep in mind since 2001, Peyton has totaled 212.3 yards per game and notched an 8:11 TD:INT split in nine career contests below 30 degrees at kickoff.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 72 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 10.9 fantasy points

T.Y. Hilton, Ind, WR (53%)
Matchup: at Cin
Forget the Hilton. Over the past several weeks, T.Y. has taken up residency at a rundown Days Inn in Gary, Ind. A prime example of Indy's offensive woes under Pep Hamilton, the explosive wideout has failed to ignite, netting an uncharacteristic 8.3 yards per catch and 42.7 yards per game since Week 11. Expect the mediocrity to continue. The Bengals have played extraordinarily well despite the loss of top cover man Leon Hall. Chris Crocker, Terrance Newman and, occasionally, Pacman Jones have filled the void nicely. Calvin Johnson, Josh Gordon and Keenan Allen each eclipsed the 100-yard mark against them, but in their past five contests they've yielded only two touchdowns and the third-fewest yards to the WR position. It's true Hilton has overcome difficult matchups before, but given the questionable state of the Colts offense it's extremely hard to trust him with the chips stacked. Book a room elsewhere.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 50 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 8.7 fantasy points
