2013-08-18

BLAME IT ON THE LAME

Darren McFadden, Oak, RB – When it comes to fantasy, the 'Black Hole' is an appropriate description for Oakland. No player associated with the franchise will finish inside their respective position's top-20, not even McFadden. LT Jared Veldheer's loss was apparent Thursday in New Orleans, as replacement Alex Barron was used and abused in pass and run-blocking. Matt Flynn, who could meet St. Peter by midseason, was relentlessly pummeled by the blitz, sacked five times. DMC, meanwhile, averaged just 3.4 yards per carry against a Saints unit that yielded a pathetic 5.3 yards per carry to RBs last year. Oakland's power scheme is a plus for McFadden. Recall two seasons ago he tallied a top-10 per game line in a similar system. However, Flynn's likely shoddy protection and generally suspect skill set combined with McFadden's lengthy track-record of missed games screams unreliability. You're walking on millimeter-thin ice if you select him anywhere close to his 32.1 ADP (RB20). Avoid like the plague.

Bryce Brown, Phi, RB – Labeled by many pundits just weeks ago as one of the middle round's finest sleepers, Brown's value continues to slump. He's executed poorly in pass pro drills and missed Philly's clash with Carolina due to a quad injury. His missteps have cleared a path for sophomore rusher Chris Polk to wrest away the backup gig behind LeSean McCoy. Polk isn't particularly explosive and runs a bit upright, but he pounded the Pac-12 while at Washington just a couple seasons ago. Chip Kelly, who watched the punisher obliterate would-be tacklers while head coach at Oregon, is very familiar with what he brings to the table. Polk's lost fumble against the Panthers and overall mediocre performance (3.4 YPC in preseason) did him no favors, but he's clearly not going away quietly. In order to regain 'hand,' Brown needs to move the meter Saturday against Jacksonville. For now, Ben Tate, Bernard Pierce and Danny Woodhead are more attractive bench backs.

Isaiah Pead, StL, RB – The love affair some 'experts' have for Pead has likely ceased. Gifted an opportunity to showcase his wares with the first-team and push Daryl Richardson for carries, he floundered greatly, totaling a mere 31 yards on 12 touches (2.5 ypt) against Green Bay. He looked timid, sluggish between the tackles and outmatched. Suspended for Week 1, Pead may open the season third in the pecking order behind Richardson and rookie Zac Stacy. For now, it appears D-Rich has distanced himself from the pack. Point blank, he's more assertive, explosive and, because he has the best hands of the trio, better-suited for the Rams' newly installed spread. At this point, he's in line for at least 15 touches per game, making him an attractive mid-round RB3 in 12-team drafts (64.3 ADP, RB31). Pead, meanwhile, is nothing more than a late-round flier.

All GB rushers not named Eddie Lacy – Two weeks ago Lacy was a beluga whale. Now, he has the look of a top-20 battering ram. Dipping his toe in the preseason waters for the first time, Jellyroll Tide displayed the devastating power and burst that made him a standout at Alabama. On eight carries he averaged a robust 5.0 yards per clip, steamrolling Rams. He also chipped in an 11-yard reception. The last time the Packers produced a top-10 fantasy rusher, Ryan Grant in 2009, people actually watched 'American Idol.' However, Lacy, the clear-cut frontrunner to lead the team in carries, has reasonable odds of breaking Green Bay's putrid RB streak. The offensive environment is very nourishing and the youngster has minimal competition for touches. Jonathan Franklin, who I really thought would be a wonderful fit for the Pack's zone-blocking scheme, has come along very slowly. And Mike McCarthy's listing of DuJuan Harris atop the team's initial depth-chart was nothing more than a motivational ploy. Make no mistake, Lacy starts Week 1 and likely accumulates at least 15-18 touches per game from that point forward. Roughly 1,200-plus total yards and 8-10 TDs are entirely possible. He's a bargain at his current 45.1 ADP (RB24).

Ronnie Hillman/Montee Ball – After Saturday's mistake-filled 'effort' in Seattle, it appears no running back in Denver wants the starting job. Thanks for clearing that up fellas. Hillman (92.7 ADP, RB37) earned the start and at times ran effectively, displaying solid burst, vision and improved toughness between the tackles. However, his night was marred by a controversial goal-line fumble (On replay it looked like the ball broke the plane before it was jarred loose), which sparked a 100-yard Brandon Browner touchdown sprint in the opposite direction. As for Ball (48.7 ADP, RB25), he too occasionally looked good running the ball, exhibiting decisiveness and brawn. Unfortunately, he again whiffed badly against the blitz, a major no-no. The un-dynamic duo's uninspiring performance begs the question, what's worse: coughing up the rock at the goal-line or acting as a ghost in pass protection? Peyton Manning would tell you it's probably the latter. Knowshon Moreno, anyone? I'm still convinced Hillman will be the primary carrier in Denver's opener against Baltimore, but next week's battle with the Rams should prove very telling.

QUICK HITTERS: The Michael Vick Back From the Dead Tour rocked another house Thursday. The Eagle, allegedly still in competition with Nick Foles for the starting gig, tamed the Panthers going 9-for-10 for 105 yards and an INT. Now 13-for-15 for 199 yards in preseason play, he's "fallen in love with football again" playing in Chip Kelly's offense, which explains his soaring confidence. It's doubtful terrific he'll run for crazy yardage (Kelly has always said he wants his QB to run only occasionally), but if the O-line's sensational protection carries over, he will deliver top-10 QB numbers on a per game basis ... Brandon Weeden is another QB changing perceptions. The septuagenarian stood tall in the pocket and threw numerous strikes. His best throw was a beautiful back-shoulder toss to Josh Gordon for 34 yards. Now a stupid 18-for-25 with 229 yards and three TDs through two games, he is thriving in Turner's offense. If you're in a two-QB league, give him a cheat-sheet promotion ... Reggie Bush will be Larry Centers circa '95. In limited action, much of it out of the slot, he hauled in five receptions for 44 yards. The way the Lions sling it, he’s bound to grab at least 75 receptions. In other words, he’s pure PPR gold. FYI trivia buffs, Centers holds the record for most single-season receptions by a RB/FB (101) ... In his first action of the season, Rashard Mendenhall resembled the top-7 rusher from 2010, gaining 32 yards on seven carries (4.6 ypc). If Arizona's o-line can generate consistent push, he will be a reliable RB2 in 12-teamers. Stepfan Taylor may sporadically supplant him near the goal-line, but the ex-Illini is in line for at least 300 touches. Better yet, you can steal him on average around pick No. 70 overall (72.3 ADP, RB32) ... If Jags management could forcibly remove Justin Blackmon's tongue, he would be a highly useful WR2. His size, sticky fingers and route-running craftiness are Pro Bowl caliber. Against Antonio Cromartie and the Jets he grabbed a team-high four catches for 46 yards. Slipping in drafts because of a four-game suspension (130.8 ADP, WR51), he could pay major dividends when the bye weeks start kicking in ... Dustin Keller is the injury imp's latest victim. Confirmed Sunday, he suffered a season-ending knee injury. The Fins are expected to look outside the organization for a replacement ... According to the Houston Chronicle, Arian Foster's back pain is now shooting down his legs. He recently received injections to combat the issue, but his Week 1 availability is sounding increasingly sketchy. If he doesn't bounce back quickly, Ben Tate's 94.7 ADP will explode ... Tim Tebow apparently likes working in reverse. Against Buccaneer scrubs he went 1-for-7 for -1 yard. Please Canada take him. We'll even cover shipping.

