2013-10-02

Terrelle Pryor, Oak, QB (6% started)
Matchup: vs. SD
Owners who plucked Pryor off waivers last week banking on him being cleared in time for what surely would've been a buffet of fantasy goodness against Washington experienced a pendulum of emotion. Not available. Available. Cleared. Practiced. Only limited practice. Will start. Inactive. For those in challenging leagues, the sways were hard to stomach. But one bland Matt Flynn performance and several doctor assurances later, it appears the intriguing multidimensional weapon will be in uniform for the Sunday night-capper against San Diego, a very enticing matchup. The Chargers, and not surprisingly Washington, have been the league's most generous pass defense. The secondary has allowed 8.4 yards per attempt, 329.3 passing yards per game and 2.0 passing touchdowns per game this season. Its finest performance this year, holding Tony Romo to a 'pedestrian' 244-2-0-15 line in Week 3. Pryor, who's tweaked mechanics, improved accuracy and remarkable play extension have opened eyes in Fantasyland, is a borderline QB1 in a bye-heavy week. Burn the midnight oil.
Fearless Forecast: 20-31, 256 passing yards, 1 passing touchdown, 1 interception, 47 rushing yards, 1 rush touchdown, 22.4 fantasy points

David Wilson, NYG, RB (47%)
Matchup: vs. Phi
One month ago Wilson was expected to be the greatest thing in fantasy since real-time scoring automation (Sidebar: The old pen/paper, 14.4 dial-up days was the definition of tedious). His electric open-field speed, ankle-breaking wiggle and hefty workload sans Andre Brown were supposed to rocket his value into the stratosphere. Then he stepped on a grenade. Two costly fumbles and numerous blown blitz pick-ups later the No. 57 ranked RB has become arguably the most untrustworthy rusher in virtual pigskin, until now. This is the week Wilson finally delivers. The stats may not convey, but he's slowly improved over the past couple weeks. Running too timidly at times after his Week 1 catastrophe, he's regained confidence lost in himself and from Tom Coughlin. Wilson and Da'Rel Scott, who was surprisingly released Tuesday, split snaps since Week 2, but the incumbent shouldered 73% of the Giants' carries during that stretch. The underachieving Giants offensive line has struggled mightily in the run-blocking department, but if there was ever a week to spark a turnaround this is it. Philly's defensive front is leaky. On the season, they've surrendered 4.3 yards per carry, 151.8 total yards per game and three TDs to RBs. ILB Mychal Kendricks has especially floundered, ranking No. 50 among linebackers against the run per Pro Football Focus. At 0-4 and clearly in desperation mode, the Giants need to get the ground game going. Look for the brotherly Eagles to welcome Wilson with open arms.
Fearless Forecast: 16 carries, 75 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 12 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 16.2 fantasy points

Eddie Lacy, GB, RB (37%)
Matchup: vs. Det
Back in the fold after missing Week 3 due to a concussion and earning a little extra R&R from the bye, Lacy is again at full-strength and poised to grab the spotlight. James Starks and Jonathan Franklin were outstanding in relief, but clearly Mike McCarthy wants the former 'Bama standout to be his bellcow. Starting this week, he should get the call roughly 16-19 times per game with Franklin/Starks peppered in occasionally on pass downs. Assuming he nets that kind of workload, the rolling cheddar wheel will flatten the competition. Though extremely talented up front, the Lions have again found it difficult containing the run. Attack lanes away from Ndamukong Suh, and success is sure to follow. Detroit has yielded 5.0 yards per carry, 127.0 total yards per game and seven touchdowns to RBs, equal to the third-most fantasy points allowed. Count on offensive coordinator Tom Clements to script several off-tackle runs to the left side, picking on Nick Fairley and Willie Young. Ride the leader of the Pack.
Fearless Forecast: 18 carries, 82 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 7 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 16.4 fantasy points

Chris Givens, StL, WR (15%)
Matchup: vs. Jax
The Jaguars are arguably the worst NFL team of this generation. When it's all said and done, they could conceivably give the '76 Dreamsicles a run for their money. Sam Bradford has been more Mr. Hyde than Dr. Jekyll in Brian Schottenheimer's spread offense, failing once again to live up to his once glowing No. 1 pick billing. He's again completed under 60% of his attempts and has netted a ghastly 6.0 yards per attempt. Still, it's the Jags, a defense that's allowed 37 pass plays of 10-plus yards. Expected to be without the services of CB2 Dwayne Gratz, they're even more vulnerable. Tavon Austin and Austin Pettis have yielded more fantasy value among Rams wideouts this year, but Givens, who has a 100-yard game under his belt and is averaging a splendid 18.1 yards per catch, is sure to please in Week 5. Ram it!
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 89 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 17.9 fantasy points

Jeremy Kerley, NYJ, WR (2%)
Matchup: at Atl
The Puddle Jumpers, who inspired many witty newspaper headlines preseason, surprisingly haven't sputtered out of control. A resurrected defense combined with a strong ground game have them at .500. Geno Smith hasn't lit the world on fire and continues to serve up turnovers, but he's exceeded many, including my, expectations, on pace for 4,700 combined yards. With the rookie sans Santonio Holmes and possibly Stephen Hill, the door of opportunity swings open for Kerley in a favorable matchup down South. Atlanta corners Desmond Trufant and Robert McClain have executed poorly so far this season giving up a QB rating of 115.0 and 69.8 catch%age to their assignments. Overall, the Falcons have surrendered the fourth-most fantasy points to WRs. Kerley is far from a true No. 1, but the spirited target's shiftiness and strong route-running ability should prove useful in a pinch.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 74 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 17.2 fantasy points

SHOCKER SPECIAL
Terrance Williams, Dal, WR (3%)
Matchup: vs. Den
Miles Austin is hamstrung once again. In other news, the American government is still overwhelmingly incompetent. Some things never change. With the wide receiver inactive last week, Williams, a well-rounded rookie from Baylor, filled the void effectively in San Diego. On eight targets, he hauled in seven receptions for 71 yards, a top-36 WR line for the week. Given the nagging nature of hamstring pulls and Austin’s long history of them, it’s unlikely he’ll again be in street clothes this week, though Jason Garrett is more optimistic about his chances this week compared to last. With Dallas welcoming Peyton Manning to town, Williams should again finish with useful WR3 numbers. Garbage-time, sometimes starting in the second quarter, is quickly becoming a weekly occurrence for Denver opponents. Against a secondary that's surrendered the most 20-yard pass plays this season, he could clean up in meaningless action. With Dez Bryant attracting so much attention, he certainly stands to benefit from single coverage.
Fearless Forecast: 6 receptions, 67 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 17.2 fantasy points
