2010-09-22

Donovan McNabb, Was, QB (29%)
Matchup: at StL
Through the first two weeks, yards have been plentiful for Mcnabb. The end zone, however, has been elusive. Despite throwing for 597 yards, including a ridiculous 426 yards versus Houston, he’s connected for six just one time. Expect a multi-TD effort in Week 3. Washington and Oakland’s receiving arsenals may be interchangeable, but McNabb should storm out of the gates similar to how Bruce Gradkowski finished against the Rams a week ago. Due to the potential absences of starting corners Justin King and Kevin Dockery, Mike Shanahan will likely construct a game-plan centered on the passing game. The St. Louis D, which has allowed a healthy 7.0 yards per attempt and 248.5 passing yards per game, is aerially challenged. Give up 297 yards to Derek Anderson and you deserve such a label. Throw in Clinton Portis’s inability to run through a statue comprised of Cool Whip (3.1 ypc), and it’s clear McNabb will be leaned on heavily. Consider the vet a top-10 QB play on the road.
Fearless Forecast: 24-35, 282 passing yards, 2 passing touchdowns, 0 interceptions, 22 fantasy points

Ricky Williams, Mia, RB (20%)
Matchup: vs. NYJ
To the casual viewer, a matchup against the vaunted Jets would seem highly unattractive. After all, despite not having hole plunger Kris Jenkins last week, they limited the Pats to just 2.6 yards per carry. However, if you think they will dominate the trenches again, keep slugging back the banana daiquiris alongside Braylon Edwards. Darrelle Revis’s absence puts enormous pressure on the makeshift defensive line. Chad Henne will undoubtedly target Brandon Marshall downfield in an attempt to create favorable opportunities for what Miami does best: pounding opponents into submission. If the passing game clicks, Ricky and Ronnie will be devastating. Remember, even with Revis in uniform a year ago, the Fins thumped their division rival on the ground at home, totaling 151 rushing yards and two touchdowns (Ronnie Brown: 21-74-2, Ricky: 11-68, 3-70). In front of a raucous crowd and a national TV audience, the Holistic One massages the Jets to sleep. Expect the unexpected.
Fearless Forecast: 14 carries, 64 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 12 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 13 fantasy points

Fred Taylor, NE, RB (7%)
Matchup: vs. Buf
Spawned from a prehistoric encounter between Harriet Tubman and a T-Rex, Taylor is seriously old. Still, despite his eroding skill set and cemented spot in a tough-to-read running back rotation, he occasionally surprises (e.g. 14-71-0 Week 1). This week could be one of those moments. Kevin Faulk’s knee injury should temporarily vault the 34-year-old back into the fantasy spotlight. Similar to last season, the Bills have rolled out the red carpet for opposing rushers, conceding 128.5 total yards per game. In what will likely become a lopsided affair, Taylor and BenJarvus Green-Ellis could net a sizable workload salting away the clock. Out to prove he can “still play ball,” look for the antique back to post solid flex numbers in 12-team and deeper leagues.
Fearless Forecast: 15 carries, 62 rushing yards, 2 reception, 9 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 13 fantasy points

Tim Hightower, Ari, RB (42%)
Matchup: vs. Oak
Beanie’s surly reputation as a fantasy weenie continues to get plumper with each passing week. Looking more and more like a Week 3 casualty, the second-year back has yet to earn the confidence of Ken Whisenhunt. Regardless if Wells trots out of the tunnel in 'Zona's home opener, Hightower will start and produce. In reality, the third-year back has played somewhat unimpressively over the first two weeks. However, in fantasy terms he’s been an unsung hero racking 218 total yards and two touchdowns. He’s also averaged a ridiculous 7.0 yards per carry. Per usual, the Raiders’ run defense is meek. The Crypt Keeper’s band of hornless devils has surrendered 4.7 yards per carry, 156 total yards per game and three scores to rushers. With Nnamdi Asomugha draped all over Larry Fitzgerald, Hightower will be deployed early and often to establish an offensive rhythm. Provided he squeezes the rock, a top-15 RB performance is very likely.
Fearless Forecast: 16 carries, 77 rushing yards, 4 receptions, 23 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 16 fantasy points

Eddie Royal, Den, WR (32%)
Matchup: vs. Ind
 A season ago, Royal was fantasy’s indisputable king of pain at wide receiver. Horrifically underused, he experienced a dramatic drop-off in targets, receptions and yards. Determined to regain his regal form, the third-year wideout extensively studied film on Wes Welker over the offseason in hopes of becoming the AFC’s next slot machine. So far his hard work has paid off. Targeted a team-high 15 times, he’s hauled in 13 receptions for 163 yards and a touchdown. The emergence of Demaryius Thomas could slightly diminish his production down the road, but this week against the Colts he will be heavily featured. Because of the umbrella nature of the Cover 2, voids are often created underneath, an area where Royal typically thrives. Thomas may be the latest “it” receiver, but his slippery teammate is the more trustworthy option to start this week.
Fearless Forecast: 7 receptions, 82 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 13 fantasy points

Kevin Walter, Hou, WR (18%) Matchup: vs. Dal
Walter is a receiver who relishes doing the dirty work. Call him “The Janitor.” The definition of sure-handed, he’s a perfect 13-for-13 in targets-to-receptions so far this year, hauling in 173 yards and two touchdowns, good enough to rank in the position’s top-five in overall production. In the battle for the Yellow Rose, another appreciable line should be accumulated. Last week, Dallas boosted the already gargantuan ego of Jay Cutler allowing 277 yards and three touchdowns. With Pro Bowl corner Mike Jenkins dinged, Matt Schaub should operate uninhibitedly. Dallas has yielded the second-most 20-yard pass plays thus far. Considering the numerous double-teams Andre Johnson will attract, the dependable Walter will clean up in the short-to-intermediate field. Count on him as a high-end WR3 in 10-team and deeper leagues.
Fearless Forecast: 6 receptions, 66 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 12 fantasy points

Sam Bradford, StL, QB (5%), SHOCKER SPECIAL
Matchup: vs. Wash
Calm, cool and collected, the No. 1 pick is challenging the fantasy stigma rookie quarterbacks are unreliable headaches. “Even keeled” and “in command” according to Mark Clayton, Bradford has amassed a respectable 16.5 fantasy points per game in standard formats (420-3-4). This week against a Washington secondary still licking its wounds after surrendering 497 yards and three scores to Schaub, the beaver-toothed youngster will likely gnaw on the visitors. The ‘Skins have allowed a QB-friendly 7.8 yards per attempt. Taking advantage of what the defense will give him, Bradford will take several shots downfield. Provided the Rams offensive line can protect the prized QB adequately, he should convert on at least a handful of those opportunities. To the five St. Louis fans in attendance, relax, Spags will remove the manacles this week. More desirable than Carson Palmer (at Car) and Joe Flacco (vs. Cle) in Week 3, tab the rook a borderline starter in 12-team leagues.
Fearless Forecast: 22-37, 248 passing yards, 2 passing touchdowns, 2 interceptions, 18 fantasy points
