2013-11-26

Ryan Fitzpatrick, Ten, QB (6%)
Matchup: at Ind
Recall just two short years ago, the then Bill was a top-12 fantasy quarterback. Though short-armed and marginally accurate, the bearded wonder tossed 24 touchdown passes and averaged a respectable 252.9 combined yards per game. The Harvard product isn't particularly flashy in any single category, but he's intelligent, extends plays with his legs and hits his spots accurately in the short-field, an ideal fit for Dowell Loggains' dink-and-dunk offense. Repeatedly finding underneath weapons Kendall Wright and Delanie Walker and occasionally stretching Ds with bombs to Justin Hunter, he's surpassed the 20 fantasy points threshold in three of his past five starts. He only tallied 17.7 standard points in his last meeting with the Colts, but with Vontae Davis ailed by a groin injury and the Colts defense, in general, suffering, he should finish inside the QB top-15 in Week 13. Over the past five weeks, Indy has surrendered 301.2 passing yards and a 9:1 TD:INT split to QBs, equal to the fifth-most fantasy points allowed. Fitzpatrick, like Lucky Charms, will taste magically delicious for playoff-hopeful owners who roll the dice.
Fearless Forecast: 277 passing yards, 2 passing touchdowns, 1 interception, 23 rushing yards, 23.1 fantasy points

C.J. Spiller, Buf, RB (39%)
Matchup: vs. Atl
Over the past several weeks, Spiller's fantasy value has done backstrokes in a cesspool. Limited by a high-ankle sprain and locked into a complementary role to Fred Jackson, the once promising first-round pick has paid his buyers in Monopoly money. Indicative in his massive drop-off in forced missed tackles (2012: 25.6%, 2013: 10.5-percent), he's resembled a shell of the explosive, shifty RB of last year. Subsequently, his 6.8 per game average in standard formats is exactly half what he averaged in his breakout campaign a season ago. Alongside Trent Richardson and Ray Rice, he's arguably the biggest fantasy turkey of the year. But don't carve him up just yet. On Monday, Spiller told a local radio station the Bills need to "get back to the bread and butter" of their offense, running the football. Now at or near 100-percent, he and Jackson should have little difficulty fulfilling that wish. Gashed repeatedly between the tackles, the Falcons have given up 4.89 yards per carry, 177.4 total yards per game and five touchdowns to RBs since Week 8, equal to the fourth-most fantasy points allowed to the position. In the Land of Cracked-Out Mayors, Spiller saves some face.
Fearless Forecast: 14 carries, 71 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 19 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 17.2 fantasy points

Bilal Powell, NYJ, RB (9%)
Matchup: vs. Mia
An early-season waivers sensation, Boom-Boom lived up to his nickname punishing opponents Week 2-Week 4. During that three-game stretch he scored double-digit points in each contest, temporarily graduating from the FLEX-only ranks. However since then, Powell has produced more gloom than boom. Over his past eight games, he's failed to find the end-zone, averaged just 3.5 yards per carry and totaled a useless 46.5 total yards per game. But with Chris Ivory a major question mark due to an ankle injury, he could reemerge at the most opportune time. The Dolphins, one of the stiffest run defenses in the league last year, have struggled mightily. Trent Richardson (Week 1) and DeAngelo Williams (Week 12) are the only No. 1s not to net at least 11 fantasy points against them. Overall, Miami has conceded 4.28 yards per carry, 151.1 total yards per game and 12 touchdowns to RBs, equal to the seventh-most fantasy points allowed. Because of the favorable matchup, likely uptick in touches and New York's stellar offensive line, the Jet could host a Fish fry on Sunday. Gamble with confidence.
Fearless Forecast: 14 carries, 66 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 21 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 16.9 fantasy points

Rod Streater, Oak, WR (7%)
Matchup: at Dal
Springsteen classic "Streets of Fire" best describes the Raiders' recent play. With Denarius Moore dealing with a bum shoulder, Streater has forged an instant bond with rookie passer Matt McGloin. Over the past two weeks, he's racked 17 targets, hauled in 11 receptions for 177 yards and scored a touchdown. Because Moore's status remains in doubt, Streater could sear again, this time on Thanksgiving. If the Dallas defense was a Turkey Day side it would have to be gravy. Dunk your fantasy commodity into it and he's bound to taste that much better. On the year, the 'Boys have surrendered the sixth-most yards to wideouts. Since Morris Claiborne's demotion four weeks ago, they have shown some improvement. Still, Brandon Carr and Orlando Scandrick have allowed a combined catch rate just over 59%. Given the inefficiencies of Oakland's pass defense and McGloin's infatuation for Streater, the widely available target has reasonable odds of cracking the WR top-30 in consecutive weeks. Debate his merits in 12-team and deeper leagues.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 82 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 17.9 fantasy points

Jarrett Boykin, GB, WR (44%)
Matchup: at Det
What does Boykin have to do to earn your respect? Shovel your driveway? Take the dog for a walk? Hold down Tom Brady and shave his Summer's Eve-styled salad off his head? I realize many owners wallowing in the basement have already checked out, but it's asinine Boykin, who's filled in brilliantly for injured slot man Randall Cobb, continues to be eligible for this list. No matter if it's Aaron Rodgers, Scott Tolzien or Matt Flynn under center, the man has produced. Since Week 7, he's tallied 7.8 targets, 5.5 receptions and 78.3 yards per game. Yes, he only has a pair of touchdowns over that six-game span, but it's hard to dispute his reliability in PPR formats. According to Mike McCarthy, A-Rod's chances of suiting up are "slim to none," but Flynn and Boykin should pick up where they left off in last week's sister-kissing OT outcome against Minnesota. During the past eight weeks, no secondary has yielded more fantasy points to wide receivers than Detroit. And it really isn't close. On the year, corners Chris Houston and Rashean Mathis have allowed 16.1 yards per catch and a QB rating of 101.5 to their assignments. If you relish winning, drop a quarter in the slot.
Fearless Forecast: 6 receptions, 74 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 17.9 fantasy points

Cordarrelle Patterson, Min, WR (9%), SHOCKER SPECIAL
Matchup: vs. Chi
Every time the Bears defense takes the field Wilber Marshall weeps uncontrollably. That's how appalling they've been. Depleted by injuries, Chicago has become the Mice of the Midway. Across the board, they've executed horribly, giving up large chunks in all facets of the game. For an ultra-versatile, incredibly-explosive emerging player like Patterson, it's a true dream matchup. Over the past two weeks, the rookie has become an integral part of the Vikings offense. Though he hasn't lit up fantasy scoreboards (11-82-0), he's attracted 20 targets, supplanting Jerome Simpson on the depth-chart. Outside leagues that score for return yardage, he's offered minimal utility, but if he entices another 8-10 targets, it's entirely conceivable he finishes inside the WR top-36 this week. Yes, his QB is still Christian Ponder, but due to the Bears' shortcomings on run D, it would be no surprise if Bill Musgrave finally gets creative with his deadliest weapon.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 64 receiving yards, 14 rushing yards, 1 touchdown, 17.5 fantasy points
