2013-11-26

Colin Kaepernick, SF, QB (61%)
Matchup: vs. StL
Forget Mighty Wings or Yahoo Fantasy, Kaepernick should be a pitchman for ex-lax. The passer, who was a highly touted QB1 on draft day, has soiled his pants repeatedly this season. On pace for just 3,479 combined yards and 24 total touchdowns, he hasn't taken the quantum leap many expected in Year 3. Misfired passes, a decreased emphasis on the read-option and unfavorable in-game circumstances are primarily to blame. Off his finest fantasy effort in weeks (235-3-0-20) and with Michael Crabtree slated to make his 2013 debut, many are prepared to welcome him back with open arms, but cool your jets. This is the same unreliable quarterback who hasn't scored 20 points in a week five times, his first tango against the Rams (167-2-0-11) included. St. Louis hasn't exactly lit the world on fire on pass defense, surrendering 352 and 351 yards to Andrew Luck and Josh McCown over the past two weeks. However, Chris Long and company have done a terrific job containing dual-threat QBs, evident in their execution against Cam Newton (204-1-0-26), Russell Wilson (139-2-0-16) and Jake Locker (185-0-2-10-1). In a contest where San Fran could build an early insurmountable lead against the likely Zac Stacy-less Rams, Kaepernick morphs back into a game-manager.
Fearless Forecast: 198 passing yards, 1 passing touchdown, 0 interceptions, 32 rushing yards, 17.1 fantasy points

LeSean McCoy, Phi, RB (67%)
Matchup: vs. Ari
Though 0-for-2 on McCoy Lame calls this year, the third time will be the charm for yours truly. The first RB to reach the 1,000-yard mark on the ground this year, the popular first-round pick has actually met expectations, a rarity considering the high bust-rate among top picks. But this week McCoy could get McCooked. Against a very underrated Arizona defense few holes will materialize. On the year, the Cardinals have limited opposing RB1s to a mere 3.14 yards per carry, three touchdowns and 63.2 total yards per game. Multidimensional rushers Reggie Bush, Pierre Thomas and Maurice Jones-Drew all struggled against them, failing to score 10 fantasy points in standard formats. No question, a hefty workload is in the offing, but in what should be a lower scoring than advertised affair, McCoy finishes with his fourth mediocre fantasy total in 12 tries.
Fearless Forecast: 18 carries, 61 rushing yards, 4 receptions, 27 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 11.8 fantasy points

Stevan Ridley, NE, RB (56%)
Matchup: at Hou
With a fumble lost in three consecutive games, suffice it to say, Stevan cannot be trusted to safely transport the turkey from oven to table at the Ridley household this Thanksgiving. Eating from a bowl in Bill Belichick's doghouse, the once prized rusher has been quite the rollercoaster ride. A touchdown-scoring machine Weeks 6-11, it looked as though he was back on track after a sluggish start. However, benched last week after logging just four carries, his playing time is in serious jeopardy. According to ESPN Boston and based on Josh McDaniels' veiled comments Tuesday, it seems likely The Hoodie will rotate Ridley, Brandon Bolden, LeGarrette Blount and Shane Vereen on early downs and in short-yardage situations, a change in course which will surely greatly reduce the former starter's role. Even in a friendly matchup – Houston has allowed 4.87 yards per carry to RBs since Week 8 – I would be completely floored if he receives more than 10-12 carries. Unless you're purposely trying to tank the week to improve your opening round playoff matchup, do not play the Riddler.
Fearless Forecast: 9 carries, 38 rushing yards, 0 receptions, 0 touchdowns, 3.8 fantasy points

Vincent Jackson, TB, WR (93%)
Matchup: at Car
Pigging out in the targets department over the past several weeks, Jackson and Mike Glennon have established quite the chemistry. Since Week 4, the rookie has zeroed in on his best playmaker 10.8 times per game. However, the high volume hasn't translated to enormous fantasy numbers. Against the weak secondaries of Philly and Atlanta he dominated, accounting for 29 receptions, 417 yards and five touchdowns. But when matched against stiffer competition, he's proven largely mediocre. Arizona, Miami, Seattle and, his Week 13 opponent, Carolina, each held V-Jax under 80 yards. The Panthers D has been marvelous across the board this season, particularly in downfield coverage. Captain Munnerlyn and Drayton Florence have allowed a combined 10.1 yards per catch to their assignments. Overall, only three receivers have crossed the chalk against them, the fewest WR scores yielded by a team this year. Slumping a bit of late – he's recorded seven fantasy points or less in three of his past four – Jackson should be considered a marginal WR3 this week.
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 67 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 9.7 fantasy points

Torrey Smith, Bal, WR (80%)
Matchup: vs. Pit
Pittsburgh's secondary, torched like chestnuts roasting on an open fire, have been burnt to a crisp in recent weeks. Aaron Dobson (5-130-2), Danny Amendola (4-122-1), Calvin Johnson (6-179-1) and, most recently, Josh Gordon (14-237-1) each went off, finishing inside the WR top-10 in their respective weeks. Though Ike Taylor hasn't earned his paycheck, owners shouldn't get overly giddy about Smith. A season ago, the Ravens dropped long bombs repeatedly on their opponents. Joe Flacco and Smith were an unstoppable combination, especially during the playoffs. But those days are long in the past. This year, the pair have rarely connected downfield. Flacco, who completed 40.2% of his attempts beyond 20 yards a season ago, is just 12-of-57 in the category through 11 games. In his first meeting with Pittsburgh, Smith hauled in an underwhelming three catches for 61 yards. Worse yet, he hasn't found the end-zone or eclipsed the 65-yard mark in three-straight against the division rival. Thanksgiving night, Smith, not the 10,000 calories you just consumed, will give his owners a nasty case of indigestion.
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 71 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 10.1 fantasy points

