2009-12-03

Alex Smith, SF, QB (21%)
Matchup: at Sea
The contributions gap between high-profiled '05 draftees Aaron Rodgers and Smith is shrinking, though it's still Kirstie Alley-wide. Since overtaking the starter's role midseason, the former No. 1 pick has finally reached fantasy puberty. He's executed timing routes crisply and made sound decisions, particularly when operating in the spread. Most importantly, he's connecting with playmakers Vernon Davis, Michael Crabtree and Frank Gore often. Offensive coordinator Jimmy Raye has been hesitant to install a full-blown spread system, but, as Crabtree remarked earlier this week, the play-caller is starting to warm up to the idea. Based on Smith's recent results, Raye should be thinking more liberally. Over his past three games, the maturing quarterback has tossed five touchdowns to just two interceptions. This week his passes should again penetrate the end zone multiple times. In terms of pass defense, the Hawks are a clownish group of flightless Dodos. Since Week 9, they've yielded 274.2 passing yards and 13 touchdowns to passers, equal to the most fantasy points allowed. Seattle has defended Qwest Field remarkably well in recent years, but with its defense reeling, Smith's surge should continue.
Fearless Forecast: 25-39, 237 passing yards, 2 touchdowns, 1 interception, 11 rushing yards, 19 fantasy points 

Knowshon Moreno, Den, RB (50%)
Matchup: vs. KC
Moreno's mental maturation has been well documented. According to the Denver Post, his defensive reads have sharpened and pass-blocking improved, which has boosted his confidence. For G.I. Know, mental preparation is indeed half the battle. This year's top RB draft pick is the league's pacesetter in yardage among rookies, which is a noteworthy achievement. However, this season's back class doesn't come close to matching the talent of last season's extraordinary group. Still, Moreno is starting to come around. He's eclipsed the 80-yard mark in three straight and has averaged a stout 5.0 yards per carry in his last five. His excellent performance has staved off Correll Buckhalter, cementing the youngster as Denver's workhorse. With roughly 20 touches he should rack superb numbers against a KC defense that's surrendered 169.5 total yards per game and six scores to rushers since Week 8, equal to the third-most fantasy points allowed. Throw a saddle on this horse. Yee-haw!!!
Fearless Forecast: 20 carries, 93 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 9 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 16 fantasy points

Jamaal Charles, KC, RB (57%)
Matchup: at Den
The JC of KC probably couldn't heal the sick with a single touch or shuffle across a lake in sandals, but his fantasy powers are truly divine. Those who've genuflected at the Church of Charles altar have been richly rewarded. Since seizing the starting job full-time in Week 10, the former Longhorn has gouged the opposition, averaging 110 total yards per game with four touchdowns (one return). A plaguing case of fumbilitis has inhibited him somewhat, but his refuse-to-go-down attitude has earned the respect and support of Todd Haley. The Broncos have largely been a two-faced defense this season. Last week against the Giants, they stamped out the run with relative ease. But in other recent outings, most notably versus Pittsburgh, they were gashed. The Chiefs are not particularly adept in the run-blocking department, which doesn't bode well for Charles. But the versatile back's ability to operate on the peripheries via ground and air makes him dangerous no matter the opponent. Including their caging of Brandon Jacobs on Thanksgiving night, Denver has still allowed 4.7 yards per carry 161.5 total yards per game and four scores to rushers over its past five.
Fearless Forecast: 15 carries, 69 rushing yards, 4 receptions, 38 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 16 fantasy points

Jonathan Stewart, Car, RB (42%)
Matchup: vs. TB
The little redheaded stepchild of the Panthers backfield won't be the Alfred E. Newman of fantasy rushers in Week 13. Complete domination best summarizes Carolina's first clash with the Buccaneers. DeAngelo Williams and Stewart ran down Tampa's collective throat, each surpassing the century mark in rushing yards. The rematch could be equally lopsided. Raheem Morris relieved Jim Bates of defensive coordinator duties two weeks ago. With the rookie head coach calling the plays on D last week, the Bucs smashed empty rum bottles over the Falcons' heads, holding Michael Turner, Jerious Norwood and Jason Snelling to a combined 63 rushing yards (2.3 ypc). But one sensational effort doesn't mean this defense has transformed overnight. With Matt Moore at the helm, Williams and Stewart will humiliate their NFC South rival. In their past two contests, the Bucs have allowed 566 yards rushing to the Panthers. The Daily Show rolls.
Fearless Forecast: 14 carries, 71 rushing yards, 1 reception, 5 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 13 fantasy points

Lee Evans, Buf, WR (29%)
Matchup: vs. NYJ
Evans will be a thorn in Lito Sheppard's side. With Darrelle Revis, who Terrell Owens respectfully noted is "on an island by himself," expected to draw the outspoken wideout, the Buffalo beamer will be the apple of Ryan Fitzpatrick's eye. As discussed in Wednesday's Fred Jackson embellishment, Perry Fewell has removed the padlocks from the playbook, encouraging his offense to attack opponents aggressively. Fitzpatrick has taken numerous shots downfield, connecting with Owens, and to a lesser extent Evans, on several explosive pass plays. Though the opponent is stiffer, the formula likely won't change. The Bills' No. 2 was targeted 11 times in his first clash with the Jets, catching four passes for 68 yards and a touchdown. North of the border he should shine once again. (in Toronto)
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 65 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 12 fantasy points

Jason Avant, Phi, WR (25%)
Matchup: at Atl
Against a very generous Atlanta secondary, Avant will be a fantasy savant. The fifth-year wideout from Michigan has proven to be occasionally useful this season, developing into a top-flight third weapon for the Eagles. Donovan McNabb has spoken highly of the receiver's advancements, noting earlier this week he's a "big-time player" who has gained his confidence. With DeSean Jackson very unlikely to play due to last week's concussion, Avant and rookie Jeremy Maclin are must starts in Hotlanta. Since the loss of corner Brian Williams earlier this season, the Falcons have been the victims of a vertical blitzkrieg. No defense has conceded more 20-yard pass plays this year. And over the past five weeks, they've yielded the 11th-most fantasy points to receivers. Though LeSean McCoy has been featured more prominently in Marty Mornhinweg's gameplan, this is still a pass-first team. Avant could be the biggest fantasy surprise of Week 13.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 93 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 15 fantasy points

Donnie Avery, StL, WR (21%)
Matchup: at Chi
Due to a mass Bears extermination, taxidermists in the greater Chicago area are working overtime. The Midgets of the Midway have been hunted down vertically with unparalleled success. Giving up a seemingly uncountable number of long pass plays, the Black and Bruised have surrendered five 70-yard receiver performances and six touchdowns to wideouts over the past five weeks, equal to the fifth-most fantasy points allowed. This week, the little football brother down I-55 could be surprisingly competitive. That's right Bears fans. Armageddon has arrived. Avery quietly ranks 22nd at his position in points per game since Week 9, averaging 65 yards with three touchdowns. Because of Chicago's gross insufficiencies in downfield coverage, the smallish wideout's speed will cause headaches. If Kyle Boller can carry over his adequate play from a week ago, Avery will again finish within or just outside the top 20.
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 54 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 11 fantasy points

Carolina Panthers, Car, DST (28%)
Matchup: vs. TB
Facing Tampa's turnover prone offense, Carolina has infected the Noise with a case of "Cat Scratch Fever." Josh Freeman has performed well beyond expectations, occasionally delivering precise passes and making plays with his feet. Despite his veteran savvy, he's often looked and played like a rookie. Often he's held onto the rock too long, which has led to several sacks (11 in five games) and fumbles (seven). Julius Peppers must be licking his chops. Carolina can be skewered in the trenches, but because Tampa doesn't have a formidable rushing attack, the Panthers will focus on the pass. In their previous meeting in Week 6 (Josh Johnson QB'd Tampa), the Panthers coaxed two turnovers and recorded four sacks. This week, the widely available unit could pay a double-digit dividend for only the second time this season.
Fearless Forecast: 3 sacks, 1 fumble recovery, 2 defensive interceptions, 10 points allowed, 1 touchdown, 13 fantasy points

