2009-12-03

Drew Brees, NO, QB (97%)
Matchup: at Was
We're extremely hesitant recommending arguably the most explosive passer in the NFC as a lame. Frankly, it's the equivalent of including Megan Fox on a list of Hollywood Medusas. But due the stringent rules of this little game, Brees is absurdly designated as such. There is an argument to be made. Washington boasts the best pass defense in the NFL. Over the past five weeks, the ‘Skins have allowed a mere 189.5 passing yards per game and five touchdowns to passers, equal to the fifth-fewest fantasy points allowed. Brees isn't immune from putrid performances. Earlier this season he logged back-to-back sub-200-yard, zero touchdown games against Buffalo and the New York Jets. If Washington doesn't bite on ball fakes and double moves (Carlos Rogers!) it could defy the odds. As Jim Zorn said earlier this week, the defense "absolutely must be disciplined" to prevent a blowout. You're still starting him, but a third dud effort isn't out of the question.
Fearless Forecast: 19-28, 211 passing yards, 1 touchdown, 2 interceptions, 12 fantasy points

Joseph Addai, Ind, RB (88%)
Matchup: vs. Ten
Addai has been the Henry VIII of consistency kings, devouring the competition. Amazingly, he's recorded a touchdown in six of his past eight games. Hindered by timidity a season ago, he's replaced the dancing shoes with work boots, drawing apologies from fantasy pundits and Colts bloggers. Though on paper he appears to be a slam dunk "flame" against the white-hot Titans, the numbers are somewhat deceiving. Over the past five weeks Tennessee has allowed 6.1 yards per carry to rushers. But over its past three, that number is dramatically lower (4.1 ypc). During their miraculous resurgence, the Titans have finally rediscovered the defensive identity that labeled them one of the NFL's most feared units a season ago. Their creative mixture of twists and stunts have often befuddled and confused quarterbacks and stymied the run. With Donald Brown a major question mark, Addai will most certainly net his usual 15-20 touches. But similar to last week in Houston, the results could be bland.
Fearless Forecast: 16 carries, 67 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 16 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 8 fantasy points

Steve Slaton, Hou, RB (67%)
Matchup: at Jax
Not even a lifetime supply of Vidal Sassoon products could sway Gary Kubiak from his committee beliefs. The well-combed coach is dedicated to an even distribution between Slaton and backfield "Lurch," Chris Brown. More frustrating is his commitment to giving the upright runner the ball inside the red zone. Since Week 9, Brown has three times more carries inside the 20 than Slaton. Because of his featured role as a pass catcher, The Slasher is still must start material in PPR-intensive formats. But for standard leaguers, he's a matchup-only play. This week, he deserves to ride the pine in shallow leagues. Lately, the Wild Card-hunting Jags have tightened up their interior defense. Since Week 9 they've conceded just 118.6 total yards per game and four touchdowns to rushers, equal to the eighth-fewest fantasy points allowed. Another mundane effort is on the horizon.
Fearless Forecast: 11 carries, 48 rushing yards, 5 reception, 39 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 8 fantasy points

Brandon Jacobs, NYG, RB (67%)
Matchup: vs. Dal
The Football Frankenstein is a caricature of his former intimidating self. New York's once impenetrable offensive line has been repeatedly pillaged by aggressive, quick defenses. In turn, Jacobs has run more east-west than north-south, leading casual observers to believe he's lost his edge. Truthfully, the monstrous runner is fine physically. Being such a large rusher, he needs an adequate lane to gain steam in the open-field. He's simply been gifted few. Unless the Giants line turns back the clock, Dallas' fast-attacking defense will reign over the line of scrimmage, an occurrence which has happened routinely of late. Since Week 9, the ‘Boys have surrendered just 4.0 yards per carry and one touchdown to rushers, equal to the sixth-fewest fantasy points allowed. At this point last year, Jacobs had four 100-yard games under his belt. This year, he's yet to eclipse the century mark. Unfortunately, even possibly without Ahmad Bradshaw in uniform, that streak will likely continue.
Fearless Forecast: 14 carries, 50 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 15 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 6 fantasy points

Roddy White, Atl, WR (90%)
Matchup: vs. Phi
Michael Vick's return to the Georgia Dome will surely bring out PETA protestors in droves. By game's end, White owners may picket alongside them. Bothered by a knee injury for the past several weeks, the sticky-handed wideout has continued to perform at a high level averaging 4.6 receptions and 67 yards per game. Chris Redman is a capable backup, but Philly's blitz-crazed defense is an untamable unit which will surely rattle the pocket. So far this season, only one wideout has surpassed the 80-yard mark against the Eagles. Over the past five weeks, they've also surrendered the 11th-fewest fantasy points to WRs. Stretching back to '07 White has averaged six receptions, 80.8 yards per game and totaled four scores with Redman at the controls. But the presence of Asante Samuel and Redman's lack of arm strength are unavoidable concerns.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 63 receiving yards, 0 touchdown, 6 fantasy points

Donald Driver, GB, WR (71%)
Matchup: vs. Bal
The Dr. Seuss of the NFL has voraciously consumed opposing corners as though they were Green Eggs and Ham. Throwing Father Time the Heisman, the 34-year-old has remained entrenched in the WR top 20 for most of the season, including the past five weeks. During that stretch he's outperformed Greg Jennings, averaging 73.2 yards per game with two touchdowns. Evident in their No. 8 ranking in most 20-yard pass plays allowed, the Ravens have been victimized vertically. However, they've shown significant improvement in pass defense in recent weeks. Since Week 9, the Blackbirds have conceded the fifth-fewest fantasy points to wideouts. If Ray Lewis and company successfully dial up pressure on Aaron Rodgers, they should be able to mask their coverage deficiencies, thus limiting opportunities for Double-D downfield.
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 56 receiving yards, 0 touchdown, 5 fantasy points

Calvin Johnson, Det, WR (64%)
Matchup: at Cin
Chad Ochocinco is jealous of Johnson, not because of the youngster's otherworldly skill set but rather his Megatron nickname. Football's favorite court jester playfully told the Detroit Free Press this week he wished people referred to him as Ochotron or Optimus Tron. This week, the leader of the Decepticons will likely be outperformed by his admirer. Johnson, who has been bothered by myriad injuries for weeks, is expected to play without restriction. However, Leon Hall will apply the shackles. Johnson has outmaneuvered double coverage for most of the season, but the Bengals' bracket scheme is more unforgiving than most. Only one receiver has reached the 50-yard mark against Cincy since Week 9. The Queen City Cats have also surrendered the fewest fantasy points to wideouts during that span. The Lions are slowly rebuilding, but this week, in what easily could be a shutout, the Bengals will force them to take a step back.
Fearless Forecast: 3 receptions, 30 receiving yards, 0 touchdown, 3 fantasy points 

Heath Miller, Pit, TE (60%)
Matchup: vs. Oak
Miller is in the midst of a breakout season. He's already established a new career high in receptions and is currently on pace to obliterate previous benchmarks in yards and touchdowns. But despite his across-the-board advancements, the enlarged target has been fairly unreliable, especially of late. Since Week 7, he's found the end zone just once and has eclipsed 40 yards in a game an equal number of times. This week, he will again be forgotten. Due to their shortcomings upfront, the Raiders have yet to allow a touchdown to a tight end this season. Overall, they've also yielded the third-fewest fantasy points to the position. Simply put: when near the goal-line, teams have chosen to run the ball. Pittsburgh is unquestionably a pass-first team, but with Ben Roethlisberger banged up, Rashard Mendenhall is sure to shoulder a substantial portion of the offensive load, particularly inside the red zone.
Fearless Forecast: 3 receptions, 22 receiving yards, 0 touchdown, 2 fantasy points

