2015-09-16

Tom Brady, NE, QB (77%, $45)
Matchup: at Buf
Nearly impeccable in the Pats' opener versus Pittsburgh (25-32, 288-4-0), Tom Terrific will give way to creepy courtroom-sketch Brady, an alter-ego fit for a DirecTV ad, not a DFS roster, especially at a pricey $45. Over his lengthy career, the reigning World Champ has consumed several Buffalo burgers. In 26 games, he averaged 240.7 passing yards and 2.2 passing touchdowns per game, throwing just 19 total picks against the division rival. His most recent visit to Wing City, Week 6 last year, he tallied 361 yards and four scores. However, 2015's Bills are a different defensive breed. Under mastermind Rex Ryan, they're attacking, unyielding and downright impenetrable at times. Last week, they held projected QB king Andrew Luck to a modest 243-2-2-20 output and a wretched 4.96 pass yards per attempt. Specifically, Stephon Gilmore, who wants a piece of Rob Gronkowski Sunday, stifled his assignments. Thrown at 15 times, he surrendered seven receptions (46.7 catch percentage) and deflected four passes. Having LeGarrette Blount back helps, but If Gilmore, Ronald Darby and Mario Butler continue to play at a high level, New England's golden boy will resemble fantasy pyrite. Don't chase Week 1's numbers. 
Fearless Forecast: 23-37, 236 passing yards, 2 passing touchdowns, 2 interceptions, 15.4 fantasy points 

Eddie Lacy, GB, RB (98%, $33)
Matchup: vs. Sea
Everyone's favorite rotund rusher, as expected, devoured the Bears last week en route to 99 total yards and a score. Per usual, he plowed through would-be tacklers gaining 56.4 percent of his yards after initial contact. An underrated receiver, he also hauled in two Aaron Rodgers passes for 12 yards. However, after being blessed with the mother of all matchups Week 1, Lacy will have to answer to daddy Sunday night. The Seahawks stamped out the run relentlessly last year, especially when matched against Green Bay. In a pair of 2014 games, including the playoffs, Lacy totaled an unexciting 3.24 yards per carry, 118 combined yards and zero touchdowns against Seattle. He'll receive his customary 18-22 touch workload, but a nauseating amount of 3-yard plods could be on tap. Benny Cunningham is no Lacy, but he accounted for only 2.8 yards per carry on 16 totes against the 'Hawks a week ago. The elevated backup did chip in four catches for 77 yards, but the Packer backer is largely used as a dump off option in the pass game, which limits his scoring potential. Bruce Irvin, K.J. Wright and Bobby Wagner were very active containing the run Week 1. This week against a stiffer foe, I anticipate the trio to be even better. 
Fearless Forecast: 18 carries, 72 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 10 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 9.2 fantasy points 

Frank Gore, Ind, RB (82%, $25)
Matchup: vs. NYJ
It seems for the better part of the last half century, silver-tongued scribes have attempted to predict Gore's demise. But every year the consistency king left them with egg on their face. All good things eventually do come to an end, however, and that could be the case for the 32-year-old rusher this season. The future AARP spokesman looked every bit his age last week in Buffalo. He broke few tackles, slumped his way to 31 yards on eight carries and, most concerning, saw action on just 33 of 77 snaps. Game flow was partially to blame as the Colts fell behind early, but the limited workload certainly raised eyebrows, particularly after Chuck Pagano's "pitch count" comments leading up to Week 1. Gore should grip the rock more often Monday Night, possibly reaching 15 total touches, but an unsightly final line is a likely outcome. New York dominated Cleveland in the trenches last Sunday. The Browns, who were supposed to have a top-10 offensive line, were tossed around like rag-dolls. In all, Isaiah Crowell and company totaled a ghastly 2.3 yards per carry. Indy, remarkably, did rank top-12 in run-blocking Week 1. Still, the matchup isn't conducive for a favorable fantasy result. 
Fearless Forecast: 13 carries, 59 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 9 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 7.8 fantasy points

Jeremy Maclin, KC, WR (77%, $25)
Matchup: vs. Den
As stated time and time again across various media platforms, Steve Smith was not a recommended option in Week 1. Why? Two words: Chris Harris. The Denver corner is the best pass defender in the game today. Yes, better than Darrelle Revis or Richard Sherman. He ranked No. 1 in coverage last year according to Pro Football Focus, surrendering a 47.4 QB rating. More impressively, he hasn't allowed a touchdown in 17 straight games. He's as close to 'shutdown' as it gets. No surprise, he and Aqib Talib squeezed Smith Sr., holding him to a mere two receptions for 13 yards. And that was without starting safety T.J. Ward, one of the hardest hitting DBs in the league. With Ward back in the mix, the heat will most certainly be on Alex Smith's top wide receiver Thursday night. Thoughts of him even repeating last week's largely vanilla 5-52-0 line is a 'shroom-induced illusion. Toss in Denver's dogged pass rush and Maclin is 100 percent avoidable. Give me Donte Moncrief (vs. NYJ), Kendall Wright (at Cle) or John Brown (at Chi) over him. 
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 38 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 5.8 fantasy points 

Allen Robinson, Jac, WR (61%, $23)
Matchup: vs. Mia
So much for Blake Bortles being a competent NFL quarterback. Against a much-improved Carolina Panthers defense it was the same tired story for the Jags – persistent ineffectiveness, rare red-zone looks, bed wettings. SO Jacksonville. In total, the Hello Kitties of the AFC scraped together a horrendous 265 yards of total offense. Worse, they ran eight (out of 66) plays inside the 20. Recall a season ago, they registered a league-worst 8.5 red-zone percentage. Robinson, hyped throughout the preseason for his spectacular end-zone grabs and projected heightened role, caught just one pass (on six targets) for 27 yards. Predictably, investors who shelled out an early-round pick for the WR's services are now very nervous. Another stinker, and a pants change will be needed. If you're an owner, it's wise to pick up another pair of Dungarees. Kirk Cousins is by no means a world-beater, but the Dolphins clamped down on Washington's pass attack last week. Overall, 'Skins WRs caught only 11 balls for 125 yards. Corners Brent Grimes and Brice McCain, deservedly, ranked No. 15 and No. 19 in pass coverage Week 1 per PFF. Unless Bortles morphs into late-90s Mark Brunell, Robinson will underachieve again. 
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 55 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 7.5 fantasy points 
