August 24, 2014 2:27 PM

PRESEASON WEEK 3 FLAMES

Doug Martin, TB, RB  – You've won me over, Muscle Hamster. Earlier this month, the Tampa rusher, expected to be logjammed in an unknown RBBC in Jeff Tedford's offense, ranked outside my RB top-15. Now entrenched as the three-down bellcow with Charles Sims out for the next 10-12 weeks, he's regained trust as an RB1. In Tampa's final first-team tuneup, he looked every bit the 15-20 touch back. His 3.2 yards per carry didn't move the meter, but he totaled 65 yards on 12 grips, working all three downs. Tampa's offensive line isn't the most rigid, however, Martin's projected volume favors a major rebound year. Having Mike Evans and Vincent Jackson to stretch the field greatly benefits him. If you've yet to draft, he's worth strong consideration in the mid-second. A 1,400-total yard, 10-12 TD line seems completely reasonable. 

[ Yahoo Sports Fantasy Football: Sign up and join a league today! ]

Matt Ryan, Atl, QB – The bitter taste of 2013 has been washed away. Ryan, who posted commendable numbers a season ago (QB9) despite Julio Jones' absence and an ankle-handicapped Roddy White, might be on the verge of a career year. The loss of O-lineman Sam Baker hurts, but Julio has looked unstoppable in the early season and White again has a pep in his step. Equally important, Atlanta's defense should again give up oodles of points, thrusting Ryan into high-volume shootouts. Throw in a questionable rushing attack and a fantastic third option in feminine-scented Harry Douglas and the ingredients are in place for the passer to serve up a bountiful feast. Approximately 4,900 yards and 32-35 touchdowns are in my fearless forecast. Next to Matthew Stafford, he may possess the highest upside of any QB after the big three (Peyton, Brees and Rodgers). 

Allen Hurns, Jac, WR –  Football's 'Hitman' has started to turn heads in Fantasyland. Undeniably the most consistent Jags receiver throughout training camp, he's grabbed 13 receptions for 230 yards and a touchdown through three preseason games, including a 113-yard effort Friday against the Lions. He isn't a blazer, but at 6-foot-3, 195 pounds, Hurns, who is very familiar with OC Jedd Fisch's offense after playing for the coach at Miami, has the size, route savvy and hands to disrupt defenses. He's more than the underneath, zone-only target most NFL scouts tabbed him as. The rapport he's built with Chad Henne and Blake Bortles should do him wonders once the regular season commences. Marqise Lee and Cecil Shorts have received the most love in drafts, but the diamond in the rough has legit shocker special potential, even in Gus Bradley's conservative offense. Facing a vulnerable Eagles secondary Week 1, he could be the hottest waiver add of the early season. 

Eric Decker, NYJ, WR – Yes, going from Peyton Manning to Geno Smith is akin to choosing a Newark vacation over the Caribbean, but, as stated repeatedly in this space, Decker is terribly undervalued. The guy is really the only game in town. Logging extensive time against the Giants, the coveted off-season acquisition was the apple of Geno's eye, catching three passes for 34 yards and a touchdown. Given his superb size and red-zone capabilities, Decker is one of the league's finest weapons inside the 20. Sure his QB would struggle splashing the ocean from 10 yards out, but he will most certainly be a targets hog. It's not inconceivable he lures 140-plus looks this year. Off a 1,288-yard, 12-TD campaign in Denver, his fantasy worth is sure to decline, but don't anticipate a dramatic one. His WR4 price tag (91.7 ADP, WR37) is absurd. Decker will be a top-30 WR at a minimum, finishing in the range of 75-900-9. 

Shane Vereen, NE, RB – The training camp buzz generated by James White complicated what was an already hard-to-pinpoint New England backfield. Whispers surfaced the rookie would slide into the 'big back' and 'Kevin Faulk' roles, poaching touches from Stevan Ridley and Vereen. However, relatively ineffective in preseason action, it doesn't appear he will pose a significant threat. Vereen, deployed in various pakages as a rusher/receiver, was brilliant Friday night against a rigid Carolina defense. On 13 touches he racked 75 yards from scrimmage finding the end-zone twice. Surprisingly, he out-snapped Ridley 26-to-8 over two-plus quarters of play. New England will have a committee backfield. But because of Vereen's unique skill set and open-field explosiveness, he's sure to lead the team in touches this year, notching possibly 12-15 per game. His ADP has mysteriously dipped a full round over the past month, making him a bargain buy around pick No. 50 overall. View him as a discounted version of Reggie Bush, 100-percent pure PPR gold. 

View gallery
.
