2014-10-08

Eli Manning, NYG, QB (30%)
Matchup: at Phi
Eli stink faces no more. After a laughable preseason and bumpy early start, the Giants offense is finally clicking. Over the past three weeks, the two-time champ has resembled the QB from three years ago. He's benefited from clean pockets (21.3 pressure percentage), spread the wealth and thrown strikes. During that stretch, he's completed 70.1 percent of his attempts, tallied an 8:1 TD-INT split and totaled a 104.9 QB rating. Hot diggity dog. Because of Rashad Jennings' excellent receiving and blitz pick-up skills, his absence will be felt. However, with Odell Beckham Jr. now in the mix and delivering as advertised and given the emergence of Larry Donnell, Younger Manning has an impressive arsenal at his disposal. Good thing. This week against the high-flying Eagles, he's going to need all the firepower he can muster. Philly, the most generous defense to fantasy quarterbacks, has surrendered 291.6 passing yards and 2.6 vertical strikes per game this season. Combined corners Carey Williams and Bradley Flectcher have allowed a 101.8 QB rating. In a game sure to play at a breakneck pace (Average snap count in Philly games this year is 80.2), Eli's arm gets overworked. Pump up the volume. Dance. Dance. 
Fearless Forecast: 27-41, 283 passing yards, 3 passing touchdowns, 0 interceptions, 26.2 fantasy points

Branden Oliver, SD, RB (31%)
Matchup: at Oak
Acquired off the discount rack by fortuitous owners a week ago, the pint-sized rookie from James Starks-U (Buffalo) cashed a colossal windfall in Week 5. When the Christian Ponder of RBs, Donald Brown, humorously ineffective over the past couple weeks (2.1 ypc), exited stage left with a concussion, the spotlight shined brightly on Oliver. Against a Jets defense entering the week which had yielded just 2.93 yards per carry, he bolted his way to 182 yards on 23 touches. Tough between the pipes, explosive and uber-versatile, he gained 62.3 percent of his yards after contact and forced six missed tackles, the same number it took Brown to accomplish on roughly 13 million more carries. At 5-foot-8, 210-pounds Oliver bears a striking resemblance to old school Maurice Jones-Drew. His short, compact build and deceptive power make him highly elusive. This week matched against a nonthreatening Raiders defense that's allowed 4.56 yards per carry to RBs, the kid is practically must-start material. Earlier this season, Chris Ivory, Chris Johnson, Arian Foster and Lamar Miller each had field days against Oakland. Even if Brown clears post-concussion protocol, expect Oliver to earn at least 15-18 touches. Hop aboard the bandwagon. The Bolt from the blue is a top-10 play in Week 6. 
Fearless Forecast: 15 carries, 77 rushing yards, 4 receptions, 23 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 19.0 fantasy points

Ben Tate, Cle, RB (40%)
Matchup: vs. Pit
Do you believe in miracles? If not, you should. Tate, back from a knee sprain that cost him multiple weeks, stunningly kept all tendons and bones intact in his return in Week 5. Against a generous Tennessee front seven, the fragile back bulled his way to 123 yards on 22 carries (5.6 ypc). When healthy, he's always excelled in a zone-blocking scheme. His one-cut ability, plus vision and interior power are a perfect fit. Isaiah Crowell and Terrance West will occasionally spell him, but he should remain the primary ball-carrier, behind one of the league's best offensive lines, moving forward. Dubbed "The Soft Curtain" back in August, the Steelers have lived down to expectations. They have surrendered the 10th-fewest fantasy points to RBs, but inferior rushing offenses (Carolina, Tampa Bay and Jacksonville) are responsible for the high ranking. Giving up 4.67 yards per carry to RBs, the unit remains exploitable. Tate was well on his way to a monster game (6-41-0) before exiting in the Week 1 matchup. In the second go-round, he picks up where he left off. 
Fearless Forecast: 20 carries, 101 rushing yards, 1 reception, 5 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 17.3 fantasy points

Eric Decker, NYJ, WR (22%)
Matchup: vs. Den
The Jets' season can be summed up in a phrase: Refried booty. Rancid in virtually every way last week in San Diego, they are only accelerating Rex Ryan's presumed termination. Decker wasn't available in the debacle as a recurring hamstring ailment kept him on the sidelines. However, barring a setback in practice this week, he should return to the lineup in a tilt that will surely fuel his motivation. Denver DBs Chris Harris and Aqib Talib have, for the most part, locked down assignments this year. Combined the pair have allowed a 40.7 catch rate and 11.42 yards per catch to WRs. Still, because garbage time could start midway through the third quarter, Decker has strong odds of attracting double-digit targets. Of course, time-zone genius Geno Smith will actually have to show up to meetings and throw him a few catchable balls, but a top-30 finish is entirely likely. 
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 72 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 16.9 fantasy points

Owen Daniels, Bal, TE (21%)
Matchup: at TB
Losing Dennis Pitta to yet another hip injury was a serious blow to Joe Flacco and the Ravens' vertical attack, but thankfully, for fantasy and Baltimore fans, Daniels has elevated his game. Filling enormous shoes, he's played admirably, erasing thoughts of a TEBC in Charm City. Last week in Indy, he saw action on 58-of-60 snaps, attracting seven targets, catching five of them, for 70 yards. In fact, since Pitta's injury, Daniels has garnered 21 percent of the team's targets (H/T Mike Clay). The end zone has been unreachable, but this could be the week he finally splashes the invisible pool. Due in large part to their weak execution at linebacker and umbrella-like Tampa-2 D, the Sorrowful Swashbucklers have surrendered the third-most yards to tight ends (80.8). Look for Torrey Smith and Steve Smith to lure an extra defender, gifting Daniels several one-on-one opportunities underneath. Given the circumstances and matchup, Daniels frolics gleefully in the open field en route to strong TE1 numbers. 
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 68 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 16.5 fantasy points

John Brown, Ari, WR (3%), SHOCKER SPECIAL
Matchup: vs. Was
The pride of Pittsburg State (Go Gorillas!) has delivered on his preseason promise. Compared to a young Marvin Harrison by Bruce Arians, the speedy wideout (4.31 40-yard time) has been sporadically effective whether with Carson Palmer or Drew Stanton at the helm. Brown's 7.4 fantasy points per game in standard formats ranks alongside brand names Michael Crabtree and Percy Harvin. His numbers suffered last week in Denver as the Broncos' constrictive secondary limited him to just two catches (on seven targets) for four yards. But with Palmer trending in the right direction, Brown is a strong bounce-back candidate. Down DeAngelo Hall, Washington has been incredibly giving to wide receivers. David Amerson and Bashaud Breeland have surrendered a 71.7 catch percentage and 103.5 QB rating on the year. Brown is very hit or miss, but based on the friendly matchup he's worth the risk at WR3. 
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 53 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 14.3 fantasy points

