2014-10-09

Nick Foles, Phi, QB (68%)
Matchup: vs. NYG
The Napoleon Dynamite of fantasy quarterbacks has fallen on hard times. He's repeatedly overthrown intended targets, produced only marginally in recent weeks and failed in his attempt to defeat Deb in tetherball. I've said this before and I'll say it again, underneath the surface Foles is seriously flawed. Compared to last season, he's regressed dramatically. According to Pro Football Focus, he's dead last among eligible quarterbacks in accuracy percentage and deep passing (11-for-42 on throws beyond 20 yards). Most egregiously, his 76.96 adjusted QB rating ranks only ahead of E.J. Manuel, Geno Smith and Blake Bortles. Stellar. To be fair, he remains one of the better play-action passers in the game and, largely due to Philly's inability to run the football and dizzying pace, continues to churn out high-volume outputs (40.8 pass attempts per game). Still, his sub-par production over the past two weeks combined with his homely underlying profile are cause for pause. So is his Week 6 opponent. Giants corners Prince Amukamura and Dominique Rodgers-Cromartie have been outstanding. In total, they've allowed a 50.0 catch rate and 55.5 QB rating to their assignments. Only Matthew Stafford has thrown for multiple TDs against them. Foles' slow slide toward mediocrity is officially underway. 
Fearless Forecast: 22-39, 268 passing yards, 1 passing touchdown, 2 interceptions, 8 rushing yards, 16.2 fantasy points

Alfred Morris, Was, RB (77%)
Matchup: at Ari
For the Butler, friendly opponents are everything. In favorable tilts (e.g. NYG and Jax), he achieved fruitful RB1-level numbers. However, against average or stout run Ds (e.g. Philly and Seattle), he didn't exactly rise to the occasion. In other words, the man is far from matchup proof. After what Bruce Arians called "the dirtiest play" he's seen in 37 years of coaching, the Cardinals will attempt to overcome the incredible loss of defensive leader Calais Campbell. His absence along with a slew of other injuries has pinned AZ against the wall. Yet despite the tolls, the Desert Birds have found a way. Kareem Martin, Campbell's replacement, has giant shoes to fill, but the rookie and his cohorts should succeed in containing Morris. Linebacker Larry Foote has done a marvelous job stuffing RBs. He ranks top-10 among all LBs in run defense according to Pro Football Focus. Typically dogged inside The UPS, the Cards front line has also allowed just four touchdowns and 3.67 yards per carry to rushers in their past 10 home games. Morris will receive his usual 20-carry load, but expect only ordinary results. 
Fearless Forecast: 21 carries, 74 rushing yards, 1 reception, 6 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 8.7 fantasy points

LeSean McCoy, Phi, RB (96%)
Matchup: vs. NYG
In a plot twist no fantasy player saw coming, the previous version of Shady, an unstoppable, versatile scoring machine, has vanished into thin air. Stupid alien abductions. Overnight it seems, the rusher has gone from gold to garbage. Philly's dilapidated offensive line deserves plenty of blame, but so does McCoy. Too often moving east-west instead of north-south, he's ran timidly, choosing to swing for the fences instead of taking the three-yard gain, a very Chris Johnson-like approach. Queasily, 47 of his 94 rush attempts (50.0 percent) have gone for one, zero or negative yards, up from 30.2 percent last year. Even when presented with exploitable matchups (e.g. St. Louis in Week 5), he couldn't spark a turnaround. Sadly, expect more of the same Sunday night. The Giants have conceded the 10th-most fantasy points to RBs this year. However, only Andre Ellington has cracked the 80-yard mark against them on the ground. New York has played loosely on designed dump-offs and screens – RBs are averaging 6.8 receptions per game against it – but McCoy has surrendered several touches to Darren Sproles in the pass game. Count on another RB2, not RB1, level performance in 12-teamers. 
Fearless Forecast: 20 carries, 76 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 13 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 11.2 fantasy points

Kelvin Benjamin, Car, WR (65%)
Matchup: at Cin
Of all the rookie wide receivers from this year's loaded class, Benjamin unquestionably has been the most consistent. His height, condor-like wingspan and effective long-range speed have tied the hands of many defensive backs. Drops are problematic for the young wideout, but he's rapidly developed into one of the better deep ball weapons in the league. Whether PPR or standard, he's tallied a top-15 line through five games. However, the Bengals are an intimidating foe. Humiliated last week by Tom Brady in New England, Terrance Newman and Leon Hall will rebound at home. Including last week's debacle, they've allowed a lowly 8.9 yards per catch to their assignments and an overall 68.9 QB rating. Collectively, Cincinnati has given up only a pair of double-digit performers at WR this year (Steve Smith and Julio Jones). Because Cam Newton is living in the pocket, the rookie should again garner 8-10 targets. Still, given the unfavorable opponent, I'm betting on a mediocre return. 
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 49 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 7.9 fantasy points 

Vincent Jackson, TB, WR (83%)
Matchup: vs. Bal
V-Jax and Mike Glennon seriously need to get a room. Since Glennon regained the starting job, the tandem have been nearly inseparable. Over the past two games, Glennon has looked the receiver's way 22 times, connecting 11 times for 176 yards and a touchdown. Louis Murphy has allowed Glennon's eye to wander a bit, but it's safe to assume another handsome workload is on tap for Jackson. However, only satisfactory numbers are in the forecast. Largely due to its weak execution at safety, Baltimore has occasionally surrendered big plays downfield. On the year, they rank top-five in most 20-yard pass plays allowed.  Still, corners Jimmy Smith and Asa Jackson have thrived in coverage, conceding only 8.12 yards per catch. If Matt Elam and Darian Stewart can elevate their play, it will be an uneventful afternoon for Jackson. 
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 59 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 9.6 fantasy points 

