2012-11-14

Willis McGahee, Den, RB (78%)
Matchup: vs. SD
Outside his 155-total yard, 1-TD thrashing of New Orleans in Week 8, the elderly rusher has started to develop a noticeable crust. Against San Diego, Cincinnati and exploitable Carolina, he totaled a mere 3.2 yards per carry, 85.6 total yards per game and accounted for zero touchdowns. Considering his advanced age, slumping production and troublesome case of fumblitis — he's lost four of five fumbles this year — one has to wonder if McGahee's fantasy value is abruptly grinding to a halt. Still, he has the faith of the coaching staff and continues to dominate snaps over rookie backup Ronnie Hillman. However, if another ball squirts free from his grasp, the tables could definitely turn. Four weeks ago in his first meeting against the Chargers, the rusher proved useful tallying 98 yards on 21 touches. Provided he squeezes the rock, another 18-22 touches are on tap in the rematch, but spectacular numbers could be farfetched. Since Week 6, Trent Richardson is the only RB to rack at least 12 fantasy points against the Bolts. And on the season they've allowed a very modest 3.7 yards per carry to RBs. Because of the sizable workload, McGahee remains a suitable RB2 in a hellish bye week for backs, but don't bank on Mile High numbers.
Fearless Forecast: 17 carries, 62 rushing yards, 3 receptions 21 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 10.5 fantasy points

Michael Turner, Atl, RB (80%)
Matchup: vs. Ari
Admittedly, the Model T, who at times has resembled the antiquated vehicle his nickname implies, has occasionally revved his engine like a Mustang, indicative in his surprising 20-102-1 spanking of Dallas two weeks ago. But those occurrences have been rare. His yards per carry, eerily similar to this time last year, is again on the downward swing. Over the past five weeks he's netted a measly 3.1 yards per carry, punctuated by a humiliating 13 carries for 15 yards against the NFC's worst run defense, New Orleans, last week. Apparent in his absent burst and constant goal-line stuffs versus the Saints, he's a rusher who would have difficulties penetrating a wall of Jell-O. Expect him to again plod in the follow-up. Arizona's defense historically performs best at home, but this season they've flipped the script. With Adrian Peterson the lone exception, hosting running backs have struggled against Darnell Docket and company averaging just 66.7 rushing yards per game. If Turner again stumbles out of the blocks, look for younger, more explosive complements Jacquizz Rodgers and Jason Snelling to wrest away touches. Unless he does backstrokes in the Fountain of Youth, his role will almost certainly erode further as the season progresses. Keep in mind since Week 8 he's seen just 48.8 percent of snaps. Put him in park.
Fearless Forecast: 14 carries, 46 rushing yards, 0 receptions, 0 touchdowns, 4.6 fantasy points

Brandon Marshall, Chi, WR (97%)
Matchup: at SF
No player suffered more from the Week 10 quarterback carnage than Marshall. Jay Cutler, doubtful for Monday's pivotal conference clash with San Francisco, and the wideout have been nearly inseparable this season. Marshall, whose smile hasn't left his face since he was first introduced at Halas Hall back in March, is on pace to obliterate career highs in receptions (119 pace), receiving yards (1,606) and touchdowns (12). Unfortunately, with his bosom buddy down and out, Marshall's super-elite status is in jeopardy. Jason Campbell, who's started 70 games in his career, is a serviceable backup, but his suspect chemistry with the first team and constant urge to check-down raises red flags. So does this week's matchup. For WRs, San Francisco treats have been few and far between. On the year, only James Jones and Danny Amendola have finished inside the top-24 against the Niners. Carlos Rogers' coverage, in particular, has been outstanding. His assignments, usually WR1s, have averaged a lowly 8.3 yards per catch. Marshall should again attract eight-plus targets, but unless Alshon Jeffery's return helps reduce pressure on the top dog, he will likely remain caged.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 69 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 10.6 fantasy points

Mike Wallace, Pit, WR (90%)
Matchup: vs. Bal
If Mick Jagger bought the farm tomorrow, Rollins Stones fans would feel the same pain Steelers Nation is currently experiencing. The loss of franchise frontman, Ben Roethlisberger, is a 'Doom and Gloom' scenario for the AFC contender. Cold, wet conditions were a factor Monday night, but without No. 7 on the field, the Steelers' offense sputtered under the guidance of backup Byron Leftwich. A full week of work as the starter should help the ex-Jag shake off the cobwebs, but in a critical division game against Baltimore, defense, as usual, will likely dominate. Most expected the Ravens secondary to crumble after Ladarius Webb shredded his knee four weeks ago. But, no surprise, Revolutionary War hero Ed Reed hasn't allowed that to happen. Incredibly, the future HOFer has yielded a 37.5 QB rating on the year. After a marginal Week 11 (3-14-1), another joker is likely in the cards for the erratic Wallace. Keep in mind, even with Big Ben on the field, the king of inconsistency has notched lame-worthy numbers five times in nine games. Given the circumstances, Morley Safer is more reliable than Pittsburgh's '60 Minutes' this week.
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 56 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 8.6 fantasy points

Jason Witten, Dal, TE (82%)
Matchup: vs. Cle
Witten, similar to seasonal change, high gas prices and Jerry Jones support for Tony Romo, is consistent. On pace to top 75 catches and 900 yards for the sixth consecutive season, he is the object of reliability in PPR leagues. What you see is what you get. Though failures are rare for Witten, particularly in the Lames format, he could lay an unexpected egg this week against Cleveland. Generally speaking, the Browns are a sieve defensively. They rank inside the top-10 in most fantasy points allowed to QBs, RBs and WRs. But, surprisingly, the Chihuahuas have blanketed TEs effectively this year. On average, they've conceded just 5.2 points per game to oversized targets, the third-fewest in the league. And, no, they haven't faced a bunch of Kellen Davises. Notable names Brent Celek, Jermaine Gresham, Scott Chandler, Martellus Bennett and Antonio Gates all underperformed against them. Credit linebackers D'Qwell Jackson and Kaluka Maiava. Both rate well-above average versus the pass according to Pro Football Focus. Witten has played out of his mind of late, but this week the visiting dogs sink their teeth.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 48 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 8.5 fantasy points
