2012-11-07

Tony Romo, Dal, QB (72%)
Matchup: at Phi
Jerry Jones' illegitimate child, very similar to other NFC East passers not named Robert Griffin III, is the epitome of boom/bust. Despite being surrounded by several nuclear weapons — Miles Austin, Dez Bryant and Jason Witten — he only sports the 15th-best per game average in the virtual game among signal callers, ranking behind the likes of Andy Dalton and a white-hot Josh Freeman. Still, owners, like Jones, loyally stand by the passer's side sticking with him through thick and thin. The volume is appealing — he's on pace to chuck a career-high 636 attempts — but with only three multi-TD performances in eight starts, he's lacked in the scoring department. If play-calling 'genius' Jason Garrett installed a no-huddle offense, Romo would likely elevate his game. His mobility and ability to create would thrive in such a system. Unfortunately, it will likely be status quo in this week's clash in Philly. For the Eagles, a matchup with the Cowboys is their Waterloo. Win, and the angry mobs outside Andy Reid's office will temporarily subside. Lose, and guillotines will be erected. Expect the former to occur. Philly's talented secondary has at times underwhelmed, surrendering four 20-point fantasy performances to QBs in its past six games. But, overall, DRC and friends have allowed just 6.7 yards per attempt. Based on the matchup and given Romo's inconsistencies, he's completely unreliable in Week 10.
Fearless Forecast: 24-38, 268 passing yards, 1 passing touchdown, 1 interception, 3 rushing yards, 16.7 fantasy points

Ryan Mathews, SD, RB (83%)
Matchup: at TB
To hell with Lucifer Shanahan. There is no coach more diabolical than the orchestrator of Norv Nonsense, Mr. Turner. Speaking as a Mathews zealot, it's completely inconceivable how underutilized the rusher is. When healthy, he's San Diego's best offensive weapon, a player who can beat defenders via ground and air. Still, twisted Turner continues to lean on Ronnie Brown in most passing/hurry-up situations, a wrinkle that's pushed the Noise to the bottle ... repeatedly. Currently No. 21 in per game average among RBs, Mathews is Shonn Greene with fewer touchdowns. Still, he's a very talented player who will continue to log ample carries on early downs. However, it's unlikely this will be the week he reenters the circle of trust. Tampa is far from invincible against the run, but the difference between this year's club and last year's is night and day. The league's most generous run D a season ago, it now ranks nineteenth in fantasy points allowed to RBs. Only Alfred Morris and Adrian Peterson have surpassed the 75-yard rushing mark against Gerald McCoy and company this year. Given the difficult opponent, hostile environment and Mathews' diminished role, he is bench worthy in shallow formats. Sigh.
Fearless Forecast: 18 carries, 79 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 8 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 10.2 fantasy points

Matt Forte, Chi, RB (95%)
Matchup: vs. Hou
Just a few weeks ago Forte's season was at a crossroads. An ankle injury, originally reported as a high-ankle sprain, had supporters pushing the panic button. But the rusher quickly healed, easing the concerns of those who invested heavy coin in him. And his searing performance of late — his 148 total yards and a TD last week in now dry Nashville was his best fantasy effort of the season — has the Bear on the upswing. Over the past five weeks, he's compiled a 14.7 per game average in standard formats, the sixth-highest mark during that stretch. However, don't be surprised if Houston extinguishes the fire. The Texans have not conceded a rushing TD in 11 straight games, a streak stretching back to last season. Even after losing Brian Cushing in Week 5, they haven't skipped a beat. Overall, Houston has allowed the second-fewest fantasy points to RBs. Chris Johnson is the only rusher to surpass the 70-yard mark against it this year. Chicago's 'Smokey' is incredibly slippery and versatile, but in a galactic battle Sunday night, bearish totals could be in order.
Fearless Forecast: 16 carries, 73 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 19 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 11.4 fantasy points

Mike Wallace, Pit, WR (93%)
Matchup: vs. KC
Looking at Wallace's Week 10 opponent, the superficial observer would automatically forecast otherworldly numbers. The Chiefs, as Steve Spurrier recently discussed, would probably get steamrolled by a WAC school, let alone Alabama. Standford Routt's dismissal and Romeo Crennel's self-demotion as defensive czar are clear indications just how poorly this team has performed. KC has yielded the ninth-most fantasy points to RBs and the most yards per catch to WRs (16.8) this season. Still, as loony as it sounds, Wallace could underwhelm Monday night. Largely due to the exceptional play of Brandon Flowers, who has allowed a lowly 43.5 QB rating and 43.3 catch percentage, No. 1s have averaged a bland 46.7 receiving yards per game versus the Chiefs this year. Sans Antonio Brown, Wallace will garner added attention. It's entirely possible he will again fail to finish inside the position's top-24, an occurrence that's happened in three of his past five games. Combine that with KC's struggles against the run and high early blowout potential, and Wallace is prime position to disappoint.
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 67 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 9.7 fantasy points

Andre Johnson, Hou, WR (84%)
Matchup: at Chi
To the game's most feared prizefighter, Peanut Tillman, Johnson has the look of Don Flamenco. The corner, who forced four fumbles last week in Tennessee, could land a knockout punch or three on Johnson, stymieing the receiver's fantasy production. Heading into this week, the Texan is one of the hottest targets in the league. Though he hasn't splashed six, he's reeled in 25 receptions for 278 yards over his past three games, displaying vintage form. The wideout credits a new practice regimen for his sudden resurgence. He's decreased his reps and logged ample time on the massage table in an attempt to stay healthy. Still, nothing could prepare him for the mental and physical anguish he'll likely endure in the Windy City. Tillman and Tim Jennings are the league's most suffocating defensive duo. Combined they've deflected 13 passes, totaled eight interceptions and allowed a 50.1 QB rating. Again, stifling. To be fair, WR1s have tallied a fair amount of success against Chicago this year, averaging 83.4 yards per game. But in what should be a low-scoring back-alley scrum Johnson will suffer a fate similar to what Calvin Johnson experienced at Soldier Field three weeks ago (11-3-34-0).
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 62 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 9.9 fantasy points
