2014-12-04

Matt Ryan, Atl, QB (57%)
Matchup: at GB
WIth so many upside options to choose from, it's bewildering why Ryan is still being counted on in a majority of leagues. Chucking the rock to Julio Jones and Roddy White and Atlanta's shaky defense are obvious benefits, but the signal-caller is far from reliable. In many ways, he's the Jay Cutler of the South: uneven. His 17.9 points per game output tucks just inside the QB top-12, however, he's tallied only three multi-TD performances in his past eight games. In fact, since Week 5, he's been outpaced by the likes of Kyle Orton, Joe Flacco and Josh McCown. Whoopty friggin' doo. The great outdoors only make matters worse for his Week 14 prospects. Historically, Ryan has struggled terribly in a non-roofed environment.  In his past 22 games away from the Georgie Dome, he's failed to score at least 20 points 54.5 percent of the time. Against a staunch Packers secondary, that number is sure to rise. Because of Green Bay's explosive offense, several opposing QBs have been forced into high-volume situations, which has resulted in handsome numbers at times. Still, the Packers have allowed a mere 6.93 yards per attempt to passers on the year. Even if Green Bay is down corner Sam Shields (concussion) this week, depending on Ryan should be met with trepidation. Colt McCoy (vs. StL) and Ryan Tannehill (vs. Bal) are likely to pack more punch. 
Fearless Forecast: 26-44, 274 passing yards, 1 passing touchdown, 2 interceptions, 15.7 fantasy points

Jamaal Charles, KC, RB (96%)
Matchup: at Ari 
JC's birthday might be right around the corner, but the fantasy babe in a manger will be far from divine in the toughest venue for running backs. Arizona is a place where fantasy points go to die. Stretching back to last year, a span of 14 games, Marshawn Lynch and Joique Bell are the only rushers to accumulate 10 or more fantasy points in the desert. Overall, visiting RBs totaled under 3.5 yards per carry in those contests. Charles is a dynamic, multidimensional weapon who is the centerpiece on a conservative offense. He's recorded 12-plus fantasy points in seven consecutive games. But speaking as someone who doesn't subscribe to the "Always Start Your Studs" axiom, no player, no matter the talent level or production history, is completely immune from dud weeks. Guess what? They're human. With the Cardinals, losers of two straight, desperate to reverse course and considering Alex Smith's diffidence toward his wide receivers, Todd Bowles will throw everything and the kitchen sink at Charles. Keep in mind AZ safety Tony Jefferson is one of the better box creepers in the league. 
Fearless Forecast: 14 carries, 48 rushing yards, 4 receptions, 27 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 10.5 fantasy points 

Tre Mason, StL, RB (55%)
Matchup: at Was
In St. Louis' 52-0 dismemberment of Oakland, the former War Eagle sank his talons into a rancid Raiders defense. His open-field burst, between-the-tackles brawn and overall versatility were clearly on display. His 164 yards and three end zone dives on just 17 touches set the pace among Week 13 rushers and finally ended any doubt he's the Rams' current and future workhorse. Behind an above average offensive line, Mason will be a highly sought after commodity in drafts next year, but this week he's sure to swallow fork-fulls of humble pie. Washington's defensive backfield is a punchline, but it's line is no joke. Within Jim Haslett's base 3-4, linebackers Trent Murphy and Ryan Kerrigan have excelled in gap coverage, each ranking inside the top-25 vs. the run according to Pro Football Focus. Collectively, the Redskins have allowed 3.80 yards per carry and just five ground scores to RBs. Only six rushers in 12 games have totaled at least 10 fantasy points against them. Mason's stock is pointing north, but he isn't a must-start with championship hopes on the line. 
Fearless Forecast: 16 carries, 82 rushing yards, 1 reception, 11 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 10.1 fantasy points

T.Y. Hilton, Ind, WR (93%)
Matchup: at Cle
New father, first-place team, Andrew Luck's main man  -- it's been quite the year for Hilton. Once allergic to the end zone, he's crossed the chalk frequently in recent weeks, scoring five times in his past seven games. That combined with a 95.4 yards per game mark has the former one-dimensional wideout inside the position's top-12. Indisputably, he's been a profitable thoroughbred at his draft day price point. However, this week, Indy's race horse could pull up lame. His matchup vs. a white-hot Cleveland secondary is rather daunting. Since Week 9, Joe Haden and Buster Skrine have surrendered a combined 43.7 QB rating to their assignments. Over that stretch, only Mike Evans and Julio Jones have tallied 10 fantasy points against them. Because of Cleveland's penetrable defensive line, I suspect Boom Herron will carry the mail early and often, relegating Hilton to a reduced role. To his credit, he's developed into one of the finest receivers in the game, but booking a room elsewhere (e.g. Jarvis Landry (vs. Bal), Kenny Stills (vs. Car) or Brandon LaFell (at SD)) would be a justifiable move. 
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 72 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 10.2 fantasy points 

Jeremy Maclin, Phi, WR (77%)
Matchup: vs. Sea
Piece of advice, Jeremy: With smack-talker supreme Richard Sherman coming to town it's strongly encouraged you attach a visor to your helmet. The spit is sure to fly. Sherman has regained his shutdown form after a slow start. Since Week 7, no DB in the league has asphyxiated the opposition quite like him. During that stretch, the boa constrictor has conceded a 43.8 catch rate and, get this, 18.8 QB rating to his assignments. Though he's usually fixed to one side, it would be no surprise if the All-Pro locks horns often with Maclin. Philly's finest all-around weapon has routinely taxed the competition. His 13.7 points per game ranks fourth in Yahoo default scoring. However, since Mark Sanchez replaced Nick Foles under center, celebratory dances by the wide receiver have grown scarce. Largely due to Sanchez's obsession with Jordan Matthews, Maclin has cashed six only once in his past four games. As a result, he's fallen outside the position's top-36 in two of his past three contests. Based on the trend and intimidating matchup, he's more WR3 than WR2 in 12-team leagues. 
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 69 receiving yards, 0 touchodowns, 10.6 fantasy points 
