2013-10-09

Chad Henne, Jax, QB (1%)
Matchup: at Den
Playboy's Girls of the Pac-12. Las Vegas buffets. And an unstoppable scoring juggernaut versus arguably the worst franchise since the '76 Buccaneers. The common thread? Incredible spreads. With statistical stomach bile Blaine Gabbert reportedly expected to miss extended time after hearing his hammy pop last week in St. Louis, Henne will remove his bifocals, tear away his suit and take flight in Denver. That is, from a numbers perspective. Jacksonville, the biggest underdog in NFL history at 28 points, has no fighting chance of winning Sunday, but it could back-door its way into the hearts of gambling enthusiasts. Going from Gabbert to Henne is akin to trading in your totally dysfunctional 2001 Pontiac Aztek for an operable 2001 Pontiac Aztek. The elevated backup is nothing more than a serviceable QB, but given the unusual circumstances he could be the perfect bye-week remedy for Matt Ryan owners. Masked by Denver's unmerciful offense, the Broncos defense is sorely lacking, particularly against the pass. Opposing QBs have compiled 365.4 passing yards, 2.0 passing touchdowns and 8.8 yards per attempt against them equal to the fourth-most fantasy points allowed. Likely to be buried early, Henne, who now has Justin Blackmon back in the mix, will smell like a rose in garbage time. Outscored 99-to-18 in the first half, the Jags will need to throw, throw, throw to remain even remotely competitive. A top-10 performance is no joke.
Fearless Forecast: 30-51, 378 passing yards, 2 passing touchdowns, 2 interceptions, 7 rushing yards, 25.6 fantasy points

Brandon Bolden, NE, RB (3%)
Matchup: vs. NO
On last Sunday's 'Fantasy Football Live' #RollinBlount lit up our Twitter feed. LaGarrette Blount's projected 20-carry workload against the Bengals had many in Fantasyland buzzing. Unfortunately, a critical fumble in the second-quarter led Blount to bunk numbers. From that moment on, Bolden seized the reins and squashed concerns about his tender knee. Showcasing excellent versatility and downhill burst, he dominated snaps and workload in the second half finishing with 64 yards on 11 touches (six receptions). With Blount possibly in the doghouse and Stevan Ridley (knee), who did return to practice Wednesday, potentially limited, it may finally be Bolden's time to shine. Averaging a ridiculous 6.8 yards per touch, he deserves an extended look. Regardless how hefty (or light) the workload, the rising backup is flexy sexy at a minimum this week versus New Orleans. Compared to years past, the Saints, overall, are stiffer on defense, but they have continued to struggle containing the run. Rushers have netted 4.9 yards per carry against them. Defensive end Cameron Jordan is the only Saints player that ranks top-25 against the run according to Pro Football Focus' metrics. Because of his multidimensional skill set, presumed increased role and enticing matchup, Bolden could very well be a breakthrough star in Week 6.
Fearless Forecast: 12 carries, 58 rushing yards, 5 receptions, 37 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 19.3 fantasy points

Fred Jackson, Buf, RB (44%)
Matchup: vs. Cin
Thought to be zombified given his advanced age and uneventful preseason, Jackson was supposed to take a backseat to the younger, allegedly more electric C.J. Spiller. However, the geriatric back has once again proven skeptics wrong, dominating the young whippersnapper in just about every facet of the game. To be fair to Spiller, an ankle injury has limited him the past couple weeks, but even when C.J.'s been healthy, Jackson has displayed more interior brawn, softer hands and a stronger goal-line drive. His 13.8 per game average in standard settings (17.0 in PPR) ranks top-10 among RBs. Still, the masses, always slow the take, have yet to truly embrace the resurgence, evident in F-Jax's low start%age. Get him in your lineup. Down E.J. Manuel and with inexperienced passer Thaddeus Lewis under center, Jackson and Spiller will be overworked. Roughly 16-20 touches apiece are likely. The Bengals have been fairly stiff against the run. Only one rusher has reached the 60-yard mark on the ground against Cincy this year. It's also allowed only 3.8 yards per carry to RBs. But because of his versatility and expected sizable workload, Jackson should be viewed as a trustworthy RB2 in Week 6.
Fearless Forecast: 17 carries, 70 rushing yards, 4 receptions, 27 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 18.7 fantasy points

Mike Williams, TB, WR (18%)
Matchup: vs. Phi
To say the Buccaneers are an offensive mess is like declaring Scarlett Johansson the 'Sexiest Woman Alive' – incredibly obvious. Their opening week quarterback, Josh Freeman, flew north for the winter, Doug Martin can't find a hole anywhere and their head coach is so stern, he probably would've intimidated Joesph Stalin. Despite the Bucs' downward trend, Williams is an upside WR3 in Week 6. Remember, no matter how dire the circumstances, fantasy boils down to matchups. And Philly is a quite favorable one. No secondary, not even San Diego's, has been more generous to opposing wideouts than the Eagles'. Through six weeks, eight wide receivers have scored at least 10 fantasy points against it. Brandon Boykin is the only Philly corner to rank inside the top-50 in pass coverage. Givers Cary Williams and Bradley Fletcher have surrendered a combined 61.5 catch%age. Yes, it's Mike Glennon, but the extra prep time during the bye week can only help. Recall prior to the bye Williams hauled in four catches (on six targets) for 38 yards and a TD against Arizona. Off the one-week siesta he should again deliver at least a WR3 line.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 64 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 16.1 fantasy points

Vincent Brown, SD, WR (6%)
Matchup: vs. Ind
Vincent, it's about damn time. Talked up repeatedly by the 'expert' community over the past couple seasons, Brown is finally starting to pay dividends. Last week in Oakland, he put together the finest game of his pro career. Targeted nine times for the second straight week, he hauled in eight receptions for 117 yards. Keenan Allen, deservedly, has generated enormous pub after his break out effort in the same game. This week, however, Brown will likely be the more reliable of the two. Echoing the Cover 2 days under Tony Dungy, the Colts defense has surrendered few explosive pass plays. On the season, it's allowed 15 20-yard passes, the sixth-fewest in the league. Because Brown typically operates underneath, he should shoulder a burdensome 8-11 target workload Monday night. Assuming he logs that many looks, a top-30 effort in PPR is an inevitability. Keep in mind a number of short-field receivers have achieved fruitful numbers against the Colts this season. Slide him in.
Fearless Forecast: 7 receptions, 78 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 13,1 fantasy points

Ronnie Hillman, Den, RB (3%), SHOCKER SPECIAL
Matchup: vs. Jax
Garbage. Time. All. Star. Behind the soon-to-be Brock Osweiler-led Denver attack that's what the backup RB will be. As most expected, Hillman, who sat atop the Broncos' depth-chart for much of training camp and preseason, has fallen out of favor, losing touches to Knowshon Moreno, not Montee Ball. Despite his reduced role, he appears locked in as Denver's primary RB2, earning action on a series here and there. Over the past three weeks he's played at least 23 snaps in every game, netting 11.3 touches and 64.7 total yards per game. Considering the 'Spread Bowl's' expected lopsided score, it's entirely possible Hillman logs his highest touch total to date. No surprise, the Jags are woefully despondent in every defensive category imaginable, especially defending the run. On the year, Jacksonville has yielded 4.9 yards per carry and the 10th-most fantasy points to running backs. Given the unique situation, Hillman, and to a certain extent Ball, could churn out top-30 lines salting away the clock. If you need an attractive flex play, roll the dice on the backup.
Fearless Forecast: 15 carries, 72 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 12 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 15.9 fantasy points
