2013-03-16

Reggie Bush, Det, RB
Surprisingly, Bush suffered a numbers drop-off in Joe Philbin's Green Bay-styled system last year. Woefully underused in the pass game – he caught just 2.1 passes/game, the lowest mark of his career – and often mishandled on the ground, the rusher failed to establish consistency after a breakthrough 2011. Outside his unappealing contributions in the pass game, he registered a meager 3.8 yards per carry on rushes up the middle, down from 5.1 the year before under offensive coordinator Brian Daboll. Some have already written off the former No. 2 overall pick as a one-year wonder. Though it's likely he won't again surpass 1,000 rush yards, he is line to rebound strong. Detroit's vertical-oriented offense meshes perfectly with what Bush brings to the table. Elusive and electric in space, the veteran will slide into Jahvid Best's vacated role flawlessly. He'll cede carries to Mikel LeShoure in short-yardage situations, but a 15-18 touch per game workload is likely, with many of those grips coming via the pass. Best was well on his way to a top-10 season two years ago until concussions prematurely ended his career. Bush, though also delicate, should recapture that magic in 2013. With defenses focused on Matthew Stafford and Calvin Johnson, he will have plenty of room to operate. Label him a fringe RB1 in 12-team leagues.

Danny Amendola, NE, WR
For the love of PPR fans, Danny, keep your bones and tendons intact. Welker's younger identical twin undeniably received the biggest value boost of any player during the free agency period. Though New England's spread offense is reliant on its pair of outstanding tight ends, Rob Gronkowski and Aaron Hernandez, it also features a highly productive slot weapon. Enter Amendola. Yes, he's missed 23 games during an injury-marred four years in the league, but when available, he's a slippery, versatile weapon who runs precise routes. Given his skill set, he and Tom Brady should foster an instant bromance. Welker averaged 8.7 targets per game as a Patriot over the past six seasons. If Amendola commands a similar workload and stiff arms the injury imp, his value will jump into the WR1 class in reception-heavy formats. Many drafters in 12-teamers will say a Round 4 price-tag is overly exorbitant, but the potential reward outweighs the risk. No guts. No glory. (If he plays 16 games)
Fearless Forecast: 101 receptions, 1,088 receiving yards, 6 touchdowns

Miller will be talked up a ton come August (USAT)
Steven Jackson, Atl, RB
If you think the 30-year-old workhorse will be ground up and served to Ikea patrons in the near future, think again. Jackson, who barely sniffed the goal-line in St. Louis' disjointed offense, could morph into a touchdown machine. Last year with the Rams, he carried the rock just 27 times inside the red-zone, 24 fewer totes than what Michael Turner tallied with the Falcons. He may not be as spry or explosive compared to his peak years, but the well-aged rusher still possesses enough power and burst to finish inside the RB top-15. Recall a season ago, his 693 yards after contact were the eighth-most among RBs. Yes, he will surrender roughly 7-10 touches per game to Jacquizz Rodgers and Atlanta's pass-first, pass-often mentality likely won't change, but S-Jax is in line to deliver top-flight RB2 numbers in 12-team leagues. With defenses focused on containing Julio Jones, Roddy White and Tony Gonzalez, stacked boxes, which he saw regularly in St. Louis, will be few and far between . The Falcons' offensive line needs to improve in the run-blocking department, but the two-time All-Pro's well-rounded talents and durability should make him a starting staple, especially in PPR leagues.
Fearless Forecast: 236 carries, 989 rushing yards, 34 receptions, 277 receiving yards, 9 total touchdowns

Rashard Mendenhall, Ari, RB
For all intents and purposes, 2012 was a lost season for Mendenhall. The anti-Adrian recovered slowly from a torn ACL, returned briefly in Week 5 then quickly fell out of favor, taking a back seat to Jonathan Dwyer and Isaac Redman. His no-show for Pittsburgh's Week 14 game against San Diego only intensified matters. Now in the desert and with Beanie "The Weenie" out of the picture, he will be given every opportunity to prove his mettle. Ryan Williams will compete for touches, but Mendenhall, who is still only 26 and was very productive under Arians' watch in the Steel City, will enter training camp with a leg up. Arians recently told the Arizona Republic he believes the rusher is "the total package, an every-down back." The Cardinals offensive line was an absolute disaster last year. A cockroach couldn't find a hole scurrying behind it. Trench needs will be addressed in the draft, but a complete overhaul doesn't ensure an immediate turnaround. Neither does the acquisition of QB Drew Stanton, the presumed starter. Arians worked wonders with Andrew Luck and the Colts last fall, but he has a mountain to climb in Arizona. Still, it's entirely likely Mendenhall will record between 265-285 total touches in his new digs. If gifted such a workload, he should reestablish himself as a viable RB2.
Fearless Forecast: 264 carries, 1,029 rushing yards, 22 receptions, 161 receiving yards, 7 total touchdowns

Lamar Miller, Mia, RB
Tastes great. Fantasy filling. It's Miller Time on South Beach. In last year's draft, many scouts compared Miller to another ex-Hurricane, Clinton Portis. Versatile, explosive, and, right now, in prime position to enter the season as the starter, the youngster is hiding in the shadows. In his rookie year, Miller played second fiddle to Reggie Bush, tallying a lowly 57 touches. However, he made the most of his few opportunities averaging 4.9 yards per carry. He occasionally forced missed tackles and gained 56-percent of his yards after contact, a number identical to what Frank Gore achieved. Yes, Daniel Thomas will wrest away short-yardage touches, but add in Mike Wallace's ability to stretch the field and Ryan Tannehill's expected step forward, and Miller should turn a tidy profit in drafts this summer. Watch his progress closely when training camp opens in late July.
Fearless Forecast: 237 attempts, 1,043 rushing yards, 31 receptions, 315 receiving yards, 7 total touchdowns

Daryl Richardson, StL, RB
Out with the old Steven Jackson, in with the new? With the former face of the franchise now in Atlanta, Richardson and Isaiah Pead are slated to shoulder the load. Another young back could be added via the draft, but the Rams appear dead-set against bringing in a veteran to compete. Over the first half of 2012, the former seventh-round pick showed flashes of future brilliance. He displayed terrific speed on the edge and contributed in the pass game. However, his smallish frame (5'10", 196-lbs) limited him to a yack-worthy 2.9 yards per carry on runs up the middle. Match that with the Rams' lack of red-zone opportunities and questionable offensive line, and he's a fringe RB2/3 at best. But if he sprints out of the tunnel Week 1 as the starter, he'll certainly be universally owned. But he could be the lightning component in a tandem backfield garnering roughly 12-15 touches per game. Unquestionably, his value is on the rise, but temper expectations.
Fearless Forecast: 211 attempts, 844 rushing yards, 27 receptions, 286 receiving yards, 5 total touchdowns

