2013-03-16

Mike Wallace, Mia, WR
Wallace is the AFC version of Jordy Nelson. Let's not kid ourselves. He's blazing fast, but largely one-dimensional. That description, of course, doesn't mean he'll resemble a fantasy stiff. After all, despite his inadequacies, the one area Ryan Tannehill excelled in was deep-passing. His 43.3 accuracy percentage on throws beyond 20 yards was the eighth-highest output in the league. Still, it's imperative to keep expectations realistic for Wallace. Because of his unwillingness to go across the middle, defenses will continue to rotate a safety over-the-top to prevent the big play, especially if Brian Hartline, Brandon Gibson and Davone Bess don't soften secondaries. Joe Philbin will get creative with him, installing bubble screens and short sideline routes to help maximize Wallace's speed, but it's doubtful he'll total more than 60-65 receptions on South Beach. Considering the brand name and new digs, several owners will be willing to slap the wallet for the former Steeler. Though he's bound to improve on last year's massive letdown, don't expect a return to 2010 (60-1257-10). At this juncture, Randall Cobb, Michael Crabtree and Danario Alexander are more attractive options.
Fearless Forecast: 64 receptions, 1,094 receiving yards, 7 touchdowns

Mikel Leshoure, Det, RB
Admittedly, I've expended boundless energy penning sonnets on the ex-Illini, but he underwhelmed when thrust into a lead role last year. Yes, he was effective in goal-line packages, indicative in his nine TDs scored, but he didn't register a single 20-yard run despite racking 215 rush attempts. He should make some strides in his second full-season, but Bush's acquisition blackens his overall worth. He should be viewed as a modern-day T.J. Duckett. Though he contributed soundly in the pass game last year (34 receptions), he will surrender most, if not all, pass downs to Bush, and possibly additional touches to forgotten Joique Bell. Still, he'll hold some value as a bench back. Leshoure will almost certainly net most, if not all, short-yardage/goal-line touches. Given the explosiveness of the Lions offense and Calvin Johnson's propensity for trip-ups at the 1-yard line, he could easily net another 8-10 touchdowns. Bush is also far from the picture of durability, which makes him an imperative handcuff. Don't forget about him in the double-digit rounds.
Fearless Forecast: 191 attempts, 728 rushing yards, 13 receptions, 93 receiving yards, 9 total touchdowns

Greene's presence only enhances CJ's lameness. (USAT)
Chris Johnson, Ten, RB
Most would agree, Shonn Greene was completely incapable of kicking anyone in the groin, but by joining the ranks of Tennessee, the ex-Jet did exactly that. The addition of Greene slumps over CJ2LAME's value. A season ago, Johnson was one of the most erratic RBs in virtual pigskin. In 16 contests, he registered under 10 fantasy points in a game seven times and eclipsed 20 points only twice. His impatience once again got the best of him. Instead of being content with a 3-yard gain, he often tried to hit the home-run by bouncing outside, only to be greeted by a gang of defenders. As a result, he was the second-worst rusher in the game according to Pro Football Focus' metrics. In short-yardage situations, Greene can be a hammer. His thick build and straight-line style are ideal in goal-to-go scenarios, an area of the field where he will be exclusively used. Johnson's touchdown total won't dramatically erode compared to last year. Of his six touchdowns only one was scored inside the 10. But Greene's presence practically guarantees the former rush king won't be a double-digit TD producer. Inevitably, someone will overpay for the brand-name in Round 2, but with Greene in tow and given the numerous question marks surrounding the Titans offense, CJ is completely avoidable in the early rounds.
Fearless Forecast: 243 carries, 1,044 rushing yards, 39 receptions, 243 receiving yards, 5 total touchdowns

Wes Welker, Den, WR
In a turn of events no psychic could've predicted, Welker severed ties with the organization, New England, that transformed him from Miami castaway to fantasy megastar. This year, the slot machine will play alongside another first-ballot Hall of Famer, Peyton Manning, in Denver. Though on the wrong side of 30, the wideout is still incredibly slippery. Last year, he hauled in 100 receptions and 1,000-plus yards for the fifth time in six years. However, the address change won't boost his value. Nor is it a lateral move. Manning isn't going to suddenly pump the brakes on his budding chemistry with Demaryius Thomas and Eric Decker. A season ago, the pair combined for 263 targets. Welker is an obvious upgrade over Brandon Stokley, but with so many mouths to feed it seems unlikely he'll again reach the century mark in catches. Keep in mind Manning's 583 pass attempts in 2012 were the third-most of his career. Unless John Fox completely abandons the run, which given his history is very doubtful, someone is going to experience a numbers regression. Welker will still be productive, especially for the PPR masses, but he's more WR3 than WR2 material in standard formats. Because of their size, Thomas and Decker will dwarf him in red-zone targets and, presumably, touchdowns. Don't be seduced by the new threads.
Fearless Forecast: 85 receptions, 868 receiving yards, 5 touchdowns

Greg Jennings, Min, WR
Let me guess, Greg's middle name is 'Brett.' Jennings is the second turncoat to trade in Green Bay green for Minnesota purple. However, unlike Favre, instant fantasy success is unlikely. To be fair, Jennings is a fantastic, well-rounded receiver who runs precise routes and still possesses the extra burst needed to break away from defenders downfield. When operating at peak capacity, he's been one of the position's steadiest producers. Since 2007, he's averaged at least 11.5 fantasy points per game four times. Unfortunately, going from Aaron Rodgers to Christian Ponder is akin to trading in a Rolls Royce for a golf cart. Though he completed over 62-percent of his attempts, Ponder often struggled in play-action and was a laughable 8-for-36 on attempts of 20-plus yards, the worst in the league. Offensive coordinator Bill Musgrave will deploy Jennings similarly as Percy Harvin, targeting him on short screens and slants. But he isn't nearly as explosive or shifty as Harvin, which will limit his yards after catch. Without another reliable vertical weapon on roster, Ponder will line up Jennings in the cross-hairs roughly 7-9 per game. However, unless Ponder shakes off the suck, the Old Spice pitchman will likely post modest WR3 numbers in 12-team leagues. No bueno. Remember, this is Adrian Peterson's team.
Fearless Forecast: 69 receptions, 1,027 receiving yards, 6 touchdowns

