2011-10-18

Tim Tebow, Den, QB (14%)
Matchup: at Mia
The rumors are true. Tebow was indeed conceived immaculately. He can heal the sick with one touch. And he can turn water into Apple Blossom Boone's Farm. Finally, The Mile High Messiah is back. Many owners, unable to separate fantasy from reality, have questioned Tebow's potential. After all, he's an inaccurate passer with flawed mechanics running a very conservative offense that just traded its top weapon, Brandon Lloyd, to St. Louis. Tebow believes his accuracy, footwork and general fundamentals have improved, but, based on his half of play against the Chargers, observations about his throwing motion still ring true. But because of his ability to chew up yards with his legs, he's a perfect fit for John Fox's run-first system, and a legit QB1 in fantasy formats. Yes, it was a different scheme, but keep in mind his 28.8 per game average over the final three weeks of 2010 topped the position. Denver will generally stick to its run-early, run-often philosophy, but this week, the Broncos might be more sky-minded. The Dolphins have yielded 8.5 yards per attempt, 293 passing yards and 2.0 touchdowns per game to opposing signal callers equal to the seventh-most fantasy points allowed. With the 'Fins, coincidentally enough, honoring the 2008 Florida National Championship team at halftime, it's only appropriate Tebow turns in a shining performance for the expected pro-Gators crowd. Kneel at the altar.
Fearless Forecast: 17-31, 234 passing yards, 1 passing touchdown, 2 interception, 48 rushing yards, 1 rushing touchdown, 24.5 fantasy points

Jackie Battle, KC, RB (15%)
Matchup: at Oak
Screw Gettysburg. Jackie will soon be America's most famous Battle. The former special teamer, fourth on the Chiefs RB depth-chart entering the season, quickly ascended to the top of the pecking order after ripping off 140 total yards in Indy two weeks ago. In that game, Battle pounded the interior, displayed excellent speed and exhibited plus versatility. Earlier this week, Todd Haley said the newcomer "seized the opportunity." In true Samkon Gado style, he could be arguably the biggest surprise sensation of the fantasy season. Yes, Model T Thomas Jones and tweener Dexter McCluster will still be involved, but expect Battle to be the bell cow (15-18 carries) this week in Oakland, and possibly beyond. The Raiders' D-line, tattooed routinely by opposing rushers, has given up 5.0 yards per carry, 173 total yards per game and six touchdowns to RBs this year equal to the fourth-most fantasy points allowed. Because the Silver and Black has also struggled against the pass, the Chiefs offense, as a whole, should strike a successful balance. Because of Battle's punishing, fall-forward style and favorable matchup, it's conceivable, he powers his way to borderline RB1 numbers in 12-teamers. KC, despite ranking sixth in the league in rushing yards per game, is the only club without a rushing touchdown on the year. This week will mark its first. Go to war.
Fearless Forecast: 17 carries, 78 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 14 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 16.7 fantasy points

DeMarco Murray, Dal, RB (14%)
Matchup: vs. StL
That loud banging noise you hear, it's the Noise slamming his head repeatedly on his keyboard. Speaking as a heavily invested Felix Jones owner (I should've known better), Murray is must-add, and potentially, must-start material this week. After Felix was felled by a high ankle sprain last week in Foxboro, Murray and Tashard Choice carried the load. The former, who finished with 32 yards on 10 carries, ran strong on his first series but ultimately stagnated in the second-half, a performance the back admitted was just "all right." The rookie, a third-round pick in last April's draft, was a highly-regarded talent at Oklahoma. Though injury prone and lacking in the power department, he's an explosive, fall-forward rusher who's also a significant threat in the passing game — in many ways a Jones clone. Choice and possibly Philip Tanner, will also be rotated in, but Murray should tote the heavy-side of the timeshare this week against an exploitable St. Louis defense. The Rams have given up 5.2 yards per carry and 181 total yards per game to RBs this year equal to the fourth-most fantasy points allowed. Fred Jackson, LeSean McCoy and Frank Gore owners … Cowboy up.
Fearless Forecast: 14 carries, 61 rushing yard, 3 receptions, 19 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 16.3 fantasy points

Doug Baldwin, Sea, WR (10%)
Matchup: at Cle
Two weeks ago yours truly lampooned Brandon Funston's Baldwin recommendation against the Giants on "Fantasy Football Live." Much to my chagrin, his prediction couldn't have been more prophetic. Including his breakout 8-136-1 game in the Big Apple, the undrafted rookie from Stanford has greatly overachieved, eclipsing the 80-yard mark in three of his first five games. Tabbed by many scouts as "Bobby Engram with speed" the unheralded wideout is, as Pete Carroll describes him, a "really hard-nosed, competitive kid" with superb route-running skills and a high football I.Q. With Tarvaris Jackson expected to sit out, Charlie Whitehurst is will draw the start in Week 7. The instant chemistry he and Baldwin struck in New York should carry over to Cleveland. The Browns secondary, minus emerging shutdown corner Joe Haden again this week, is very vulnerable. Sheldon Brown, who will likely draw Baldwin, is very beatable. The often miffed corner checks in at No. 54 in pass coverage per Pro Football Focus. Wes Welker, DeSean Jackson and Jeremy Maclin supporters in dire straits for a bye-week filler should tickle the ivories of this Baldwin.
Fearless Forecast: 6 receptions, 78 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 18.3 fantasy points

Antonio Brown, Pit, WR (19%)
Matchup: at Ari
For weeks it seems, the Prince of the Preseason has teetered on the brink of a Torrey Smith-esque breakout. However, after attracting just six total targets over the past two weeks (8.3 in Weeks 1-4), recent opportunities have been far and few between. But the young bud could finally bloom in the desert. A.J. Jefferson has defended passes fairly well this year, but teammates Patrick Peterson and Richard Marshall definitely haven't. The pair rank No. 80 and No. 84 respectively in pass coverage according to Pro Football Focus. Because of Brown's elite speed and Ben Roethlisberger's big arm, the tandem could be an unstoppable connection. The Cardinals have surrendered the third-most 20-plus yard pass plays this year. And No. 3 targets have averaged a very healthy 69.0 yards per game against them. Throw in his scoring potential on special teams, and Brown is sure-fire WR3 in an excruciating bye week. Wear a hardhat.
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 82 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 17.2 fantasy points

Curtis Painter, Ind, QB (7%), SHOCKER SPECIAL
Matchup: at NO
Hello Spicoli. Painter, the butt of many jokes over the past couple weeks, has steadily improved with each start. As Austin Collie remarked earlier this week, "reps are Curtis' friend right now." Unable to splash a canvas from five yards away three weeks ago in Tampa completing just 43.3 percent of his attempts, he has nailed targets at a 62.3 percent clip since.  Equally as important, he's thrown just one pick in four starts and routinely connected with speedster Pierre Garcon on a number of explosive pass plays. This week, expect him to reel in a bounty in the Bayou. Due to New Orleans' questionable secondary, it's typically involved in shootouts. Only Jay Cutler and Blaine Gabbert failed to record multi-TD efforts against the Saints. On the year, they've surrendered 275.3 passing yards and 2.0 passing touchdowns to QBs equal to the ninth-most fantasy points allowed. Because of the blitzing nature of Gregg Williams, formidable protection is a must for Painter. But if the Colts offensive line can stand its ground, he should post rich numbers against Jabari Greer and cohorts. In a game only a fantasy owner could love, Indy's Van Gogh could paint a masterpiece, especially for Tom Brady owners scrambling to find a serviceable filler. Hang him on your wall.
Fearless Forecast: 24-37, 279 passing yards, 2 touchdowns, 1 interception, 20.9 fantasy points

