2015-09-09

Sam Bradford, Phi, QB (21%)
Matchup: at Atl
We're fully aware of the Bradford narrative. He's an underachieving former No. 1 overall pick who would get injured partaking in (insert non-strenuous activity). Still, he is tasked with driving the Eagles' highly explosive, supersonic-paced offense. Suffice it to say, opportunities will be aplenty, if the delicate QB can stay glued together. Philly ran 70.4 offensive plays per game and averaged nearly 37 pass attempts per contest last season. In a clash where defense will be a premium, Bradford will easily cross the 40-attempt threshold. On the back-end, Atlanta has serious question marks. Corner Desmond Trufant, who ranked No. 11 in coverage and surrendered just a 74.0 QB rating to his assignments a season ago per Pro Football Focus, is an established, rigid veteran. However, his tag-team partner Robert Alford (111.6 QB RTG allowed in '14) and young safeties William Moore (109.0) and Ricardo Allen are rather giving in nature. Collectively, the 'Clean' Birds conceded 8.1 pass yards per attempt in 2014. In a game that should exhaust the scoreboard operator (56 over/under in Vegas), Slingin' Sam hooks up with Jordan Matthews multiple times and delivers a top-five line. Those who stole him in the double-digit rounds are about to reap considerable reward. 
Fearless Forecast: 30-42, 313 receiving yards, 3 passing touchdowns, 0 interceptions, 24.5 fantasy points

Doug Martin, TB, RB (39%)
Matchup: vs. Ten
After a promising preseason, everyone's favorite buff rodent is on the verge of repairing his wrecked fantasy image. Martin was epically awful the past two years. He missed holes, danced to nowhere and logged 1-yard or less on 26.4 percent of his carries. With Charles Sims breathing down his neck, most predicted he would finally be put out of his misery. However, he showed up to camp leaner and meaner. As a result, he performed brilliantly over the exhibition slate (5.9 ypc, 69.1 YAC%), displaying the short-field quickness and in-space wiggle indicative of his rookie season. Extremely motivated to reestablish himself as Tampa's lead back and running behind a Bucs offensive line that ranked No. 8 in run-blocking last fall, he will continue to shine. Aggressiveness is the hallmark of Dick LeBeau's 3-4 defense. Exotic run/pass blitzes will be the norm. However, Tennessee's personnel leaves a lot to be desired. Jurrell Casey is a very active edge defender and offseason acquisition, Brian Orakpo, will plug numerous gaps, but the Titans have miles to go before earning a sterling reputation. Recall a season ago they yielded a league-high 125.1 rushing yards per game and the second-most fantasy points to RBs. Provided Jameis Winston prevents stacked boxes, the Hamster spins the wheel on roughly 18-22 touches. 
Fearless Forecast: 19 carries, 89 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 12 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 17.1 fantasy points

Ameer Abdullah, Det, RB (44%)
Matchup: at SD
Since April, I've penned thousands of poetic words about the rookie. In my head, an angel choir sings whenever his name is uttered. Though the buzz from his spectacular preseason debut has quieted, Abdullah remains dreamy. He's a versatile, low-to-the-ground rusher who might possess the best juke button in the league. His patience, vision and lateral agility are top-notch, qualities that typically embarrass would-be tacklers. It's tough to pinpoint exactly how much work Abdullah will receive Sunday. Theo Riddick will be peppered in some 6-8 times operating as a gadget back. Meanwhile, Joique Bell, activated off the PUP only a little over a week ago, may be worked in slowly. Fellow rookie Zach Zenner would likely fill the power back void if Joique were unavailable. Still, the Nebraska product should tote the heavy side in the timeshare, possibly surpassing 15 total touches. Against the run, San Diego was a bend, don't break, defense in 2014. Corey Liuget is a menace in the trenches, but, by in large, the Chargers' D-line is average at best. Last year, it conceded a respectable 4.05 yards per carry, but struggled mightily containing versatile RBs, as Fred Jackson, Justin Forsett and Ronnie Hillman proved. For the frugal, there might be no better RB buy than the rookie. Fear Ameer.  
Fearless Forecast: 14 carries, 76 rushing yards, 4 receptions, 19 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 17.5 fantasy points

Tevin Coleman, Atl, RB (12%)
Matchup: vs. Phi
The adoration I house for Coleman rivals my fodness for Abdullah. The rookie from Indiana makes my heart go pitter pat. Currently atop the Falcons depth chart with Devonta Freeman ailing, Coleman is hungry and motivated to solidify his standing as Atlanta's lead horse. Due to a hamstring strain, he played only sparingly in the preseason, galloping his way to eight carries on 56 yards in the final regular season tuneup. In that contest he displayed considerable explosiveness around the edge, his calling card. Overall, Coleman is a versatile, one-cut rusher with drag-racer wheels. His upright running style leaves him vulnerable to viscious hits and negative plays, but he did gain 38 of 58 yards after contact in exhibition action, a promising sign. Combine that with his plus hands and adept pass-blocking and he's a legitimate three-down back. Philly's 3-4 D, spearheaded by former Bill Kiko Alonso, is downright nasty. Last year, the Eagles allowed only 3.54 yards per carry to RBs. Against a highly suspect Atlanta offensive line, wide running lanes could be few and far between, though Matt Ryan and Julio Jones could change that. In a game with enormous scoring potential, Coleman should inflict considerable damage, much of it levied on screens and flares. The door of opportunity is wide open. On Monday night, the youngster sprints through it. 
Fearless Forecast: 17 carries, 68 rushing yards, 4 receptions, 24 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 17.2 fantasy points

Rueben Randle, NYG, WR (3%)
Matchup: at Dal
Hear the name 'Rueben Randle' and mental images of supreme lameness are conjured -- road trips to Flint, Mark from accounting, chihuahuas, Bud Light. But fight off those perceptions, Randle is 100 percent flame worthy in Week 1. Whether in season-long or DFS, Odell Beckham's sidekick is a highly recommended play. Historically, Eli Manning has undressed the Cowboys. In his past four meetings versus the division rival, he tossed 12 touchdowns. Of course, Randle didn't catch a single one, but he did net a serviceable 4.5 receptions and 68.8 yards per game in those contests. This time around, the receiver should easily exceed those averages. Minus lock-down corner Orlando Scandrick, Dallas' secondary is hurting. Expected starters Brandon Carr and Morris Claiborne, when on the field, were repeatedly battered and bruised last year. Assignments caught 60.9 percent of their intended targets against the pair. Toss in the added attention OBJ is sure to draw and Randle possesses extraordinary potential. He's a chronic underachiever and at least half-awful, but he has a great shot of mirroring his Week 1 2013 (6-5-101-0) output in Dallas. Confidently roll the dice. 
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 83 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 16.3 fantasy points 

John Brown, Ari, WR (25%)
Matchup: vs. NO
Brown has blown through the desert with haboob force. Equipped with electric quickness and reliable hands, the sophomore receiver has defensive backs on notice. In the six games Carson Palmer was under center last year, Brown played brilliantly. On 40 targets, he totaled 20 receptions for 315 yards and scored three times. Extrapolate what he accomplished during that span over a full 16 game slate and he would've finished No. 18 among fantasy wide receivers. Dynamite in preseason play, he should carry momentum into the meaningful slate. New Orleans provides a unique opportunity. Down his best cover man, Keenan Lewis, Saints DC Rob Ryan is will rely on the not-so-dynamic duo of Brandon Browner and Delvin Breaux. The former ranked No. 65 in coverage last season according to Pro Football Focus. The latter, meanwhile, is a NFL-inexperienced DB who climbed an long ladder to reach the Crescent City. A local product, Breaux was a standout in the Gridiron Developmental League, Arena League and CFL before inking a deal with his hometown squad this past spring. His story is nothing short of remarkable, but Brown is unlike any assignment he's seen. With Michael Floyd very questionable and Larry Fitzgerald tied to the slot, JB pops off the top. 
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 91 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 17.5 fantasy points 

Allen Hurns, Jax, WR (2%), SHOCKER SPECIAL
Matchup: vs. Car
When the bell sounds, Jacksonville's "hitman" will throw multiple haymakers. Very quietly, the second-year target had a standout camp and preseason. Adding muscle to his wiry 6-foot-3 frame this past offseason, he was physical off the line and looked quick and polished throughout exhibition play. Overall, he played 81 snaps, caught six passes (on nine targets) for 59 yards and scored a touchdown. Those numbers weren't galactic by any stretch, but the eye test lends confidence he'll build on his underrated rookie campaign (51-677-6). Keep in mind he's locked into the WR2 role opposite Allen Robinson, who should attract generous attention from defenders. Most encouraging for Hurns, Blake Bortles is no longer swimming laps in a cesspool. The QB exhibited terrific pocket poise, delivered accurate passes and was generally a complete 180 from the shellshocked youngster seen last year. Questions remain, but if that version of Bortles appears when the real bullets fly, everyone in the offense stands to benefit. Most anticipate the Panthers D, throttled by injuries last year, to rebound. However, recently concussed corners Charles Tillman and Josh Norman, though cleared for Week 1 action, are not at full strength. Bene Benwiekre was excellent in coverage last year (72.9 QB rating allowed), but Hurns may only draw him sporadically. At a super-cheap $15 in Yahoo DFS, he's a fantastic low-dollar option who gives owners the flexibility to slap the wallet for the likes of Aaron Rodgers ($48), Julio Jones ($39) or Rob Gronkowski ($29).
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 72 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 15.2 fantasy points 

