2009-10-15

Ben Roethlisberger, Pit, QB ()
Matchup: vs. Cle
On the WWE circuit, Big Ben may one day unleash the "Slamburger" on opponents, but this week against the run-vulnerable Browns, he won't be worthy of a shot at the Intercontinental Belt. Because adversaries have pounded the Puppies into the ground, the Steelers' intradivisional rival has surrendered just 220.2 yards per game and a 5:2 TD:INT split to QBs equal to the ninth-fewest fantasy points allowed. Bruce Arians may install a conservative approach early to attack Cleveland's primary weakness. At Big Ben's expense, Rashard Mendenhall and, to a much lesser extent, Willie Parker will undoubtedly run uninhibited. If the ground game is successful early, Pittsburgh could build an insurmountable lead, which would limit Roethlisberger's scoring opportunities. Assuming this scenario unfolds, the aforementioned Hasselbeck (vs. Ari), Flacco (at Min) and Brett Favre (vs. Bal) are sounder options.
Fearless Forecast: 18-26, 204 passing yards, 1 touchdown, 0 interceptions, 14 fantasy points

LaDainian Tomlinson, SD, RB ()
Matchup: vs. Den
LT, traveling down the Shaun Alexander path of rapid decline, is a shell of his former self. Prior to the Chargers' bye, the multi-time All-Pro admitted he was still "a little rusty" against the Steelers. Now close to 100 percent, he will likely total roughly 15-20 carries against Denver. However, due to San Diego's run-blocking shortcomings and their rival's sturdiness against the run, he's virtually unusable in shallow formats. The Broncos have surrendered just 3.3 yards per carry, 123.4 total yards per game and two scores to rushers this season equal to the seventh-fewest fantasy points allowed. Simply put: Philip Rivers is and will continue to be the star of the San Diego show, not LT. The more versatile Sproles will be the better Bolts back in Week 6.
Fearless Forecast: 14 carries, 49 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 11 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 6 fantasy points

Kevin Smith, Det, RB ()
Matchup: at GB
Although he's racked respectable, not special, numbers this season, Detroit's "Mall Rat" has started to receive recognition from scouts and coaches across the league. An anonymous defensive assistant told the Green Bay Gazette this week, Smith is "a guy who could get to the next level, a rising starting running back in this league." Averaging just over 12 points per game in standard leagues (No. 14 among RBs), the Lions tugboat has been one of virtual pigskin's best RB2s. However, with Calvin Johnson and Matthew Stafford potentially sidelined this week, the rusher will surely encounter a sea of green and yellow at the line of scrimmage. Despite their issues vertically, the Packers' 3-4 has performed brilliantly against the run, limiting runners to a mere 3.5 yards per carry and 132.4 total yards per game. They've also surrendered the sixth-fewest fantasy points to backs. Because of his featured presence in the passing game, he's still useful in PPR formats, but standard leaguers should seek other alternatives.
Fearless Forecast: 18 carries, 58 rushing yards, 4 receptions, 23 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 8 fantasy points

Tim Hightower, Ari, RB ()
Matchup: at Sea
Against the run, Seattle exudes a Jekyll and Hyde persona. At home, the Hawks have not conceded a touchdown to rushers, holding them to just 3.3 yards per carry and 84.3 total yards per game. However, away from Qwest Field things have transpired much differently. Right Frank Gore owners? For the PPR masses, Hightower has turned an enormous profit, averaging 6.3 receptions per contest. But, similar to last season, he's been an eyesore between the tackles netting a deplorable 3.3 yards per carry. Ken Whisenhunt noted earlier this week he wants to incorporate bruising rookie Beanie Wells more into the offensive flow, especially against Seattle. Though the tacky-handed rusher will be deployed often on passing downs, he could cede a few touches to Wells in the red zone. Couple that with the unfriendly matchup, and the Arizona RB should be net pine time in shallow, non-PPR formats.
Fearless Forecast: 10 carries, 31 rushing yards, 5 receptions, 32 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 6 fantasy points

Andre Johnson, Hou, WR ()
Matchup: at Cin
According to many in Fantasyland, the mere contemplation of benching arguably the league's most talented wideout is a prison-worthy offense. To those, the Noise is stockpiling soap-on-a-rope. But Cincinnati has done a masterful job containing No. 1s this season. Based on data compiled by Football Outsiders, Leon Hall and company have held foes 102.4 percent below the league average. Brandon Marshall, Greg Jennings, Santonio Holmes, Braylon Edwards and Derrick Mason have all been victimized. As Johnson's shown twice already, he isn't void of vanishing performances. Due to his incredible talents and ridiculous 10.4 targets per game average, he's impossible to demote. But a lackluster effort is certainly plausible.
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 43 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 4 fantasy points

Steve Smith, NYG, WR ()
Matchup: at NO
The receiving Smith you want to own, the slick Giants wideout has been the biggest surprise sensation of the early season at WR. Currently setting the pace in points per game at his position, the former USC standout has averaged an otherworldly 9.6 targets, 7.4 receptions and 96.2 yards per contest with four touchdowns. Unquestionably Eli Manning's most reliable weapon, he's quickly become a dominating force in PPR-heavy formats. But in Eli's return to the bayou, Smith may tally his first mediocre performance of the season. Under the visionary guidance of coordinator Gregg Williams, the Saints defense has improved significantly, especially versus the pass. Picked apart aerially a season ago, New Orleans has allowed just four 70-yard games and two TDs to wideouts this year. Smith is notorious for finding creases in zone coverage and will likely do so with some success against Williams' blitz-intense schemes. However, with the Giants recommitted to the ground game and given the Saints' defensive prowess across the middle, he could notch muffled totals.

Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 65 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 6 fantasy points
Eddie Royal, Den, WR ()
Matchup: at SD
The Mile High Monarch finally adorned a jeweled crown last week, snagging 10 receptions for 90 yards against New England. But owners shouldn't immediately jump back on the bandwagon. As Josh McDaniels remarked after last week's emotional triumph, Royal benefited from "a lot of weak side reads." The baby-faced coach emphasized the second-year target is still a part of the rotation. In other words, he's still largely unreliable. Since a wounded sea lion could waddle its way to 100 yards against the Chargers frontline, Knowshon Moreno will be the focus of Denver's gameplan. Throw in San Diego's above average secondary, which ranks eighth in fewest fantasy points allowed to receivers, and Royal is destined to slide back into obscurity. Sunnier days are ahead, but this week will likely yield a gloomy result.
Fearless Forecast: 3 receptions, 27 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 2 fantasy points

Owen Daniels, Hou, TE ()
Matchup: at Cin
In this year of the tight end, the towering Texan has been one of virtual pigskin's steadiest performers. Tallying an almost identical point per game output as Tony Gonzalez (8.3), Daniels have averaged 7.6 targets, 5.0 receptions and 59.2 yards per game. He's also cannonballed into the invisible pool twice. Coming off his finest yardage effort of the season (8-94 at Ari), the Wisconsin product is seemingly unbenchable. But Keith Rivers and company have performed solidly against sizable targets this season. In five clashes, no tight end has eclipsed 60 yards against them. Daniels should still yield serviceable stats in PPR formats, but for standard leaguers, Jermichael Finley (vs. Det), Brent Celek (at Oak) and Jeremy Shockey (vs. NYG) are more trustworthy options.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 46 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 4 fantasy points

