2014-11-19

Ryan Tannehill, Mia, QB (22%)
Matchup: at Den
I'm convinced Tannehill could eradicate Ebola worldwide, usurp Kim Jong-un and save all whales and the fantasy community still would not give him proper recognition. Despite ranking as the 11th-best signal-caller in per game average this year, he's minimally started, even in highly competitive leagues. Yes, his misconnections with Mike Wallace are maddening, but his ability to score fantasy points via ground and air are attractive qualities. Five times in his past seven contests he's topped the 20 fantasy point mark in standard Yahoo leagues, yet no one gives two poops. Wake up and smell the stats. This week, Miami walks into the hornet's nest. The Broncos, fresh off an abysmal offensive performance in St. Louis, are incensed and in dire need of a win. They remain on track for the second season, but if they have any shot of hosting multiple playoff games, they can't lose another contest. Chris Harris and Co. have given up only 6.09 yards per attempt this year, but five quarterbacks have thrown for two or more touchdowns against them since Week 7. In a contest with possible garbage-time appeal, Tannehill cranks the volume to 11. Keep in mind, passers are averaging 42.2 attempts per game vs. Denver, the most in the league.  If Charles Manson can find true love at age 80, Tanny can easily penetrate the position's top-five. 
Fearless Forecast: 29-45, 291 passing yards, 2 passing touchdowns, 2 interceptions, 42 rushing yards, 

Tre Mason, StL, RB (29%)
Matchup: at SD
Rams offensive coordinator Brian Schottenheimer is a master in the art of B.S. It's his initials after all. Five weeks ago, Mason, coming off a breakout effort against Seattle (18-85-1) was still immersed in a hard-to-read committee. Schotty, ever the deceiver, said the Rams backfield would remain a "hot-hand" situation for the rest of the season. However, given Zac Stacy's complete suckitude and Benny Cunningham's general irrelevance, Mason is and will continue to be the main man. Off his first 100-yard game of the season, an impressive performance vs. one of the league's most unyielding run defenses, Denver, the War Eagle should again soar. Due to Eric Weddle and Jarrett Johnson's gap-plugging ways, few rushers have gashed the Chargers. In fact, only Jamaal Charles and Ronnie Hillman have surpassed the 85-yard mark against them. Still, Mason, quickly developing into a quality power back, has gained nearly 58 percent of his yards after contact, inflicting damage against some of the stiffest opponents around. Throw in San Diego's shortcomings stopping the pass and the Rams' little steam engine should chug his way to at least a top-15 line. 
Fearless Forecast: 22 carries, 95 rushing yards, 1 reception, 6 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 16.8 fantasy points

C.J. Anderson, Den, RB (49%)
Matchup: vs. Mia
Anderson, thrust into the lead role after Hillman suffered a mid-foot sprain in Oakland, managed just 29 yards on nine carries against a suddenly inflexible Rams front. However, his eight receptions for 86 yards salvaged an otherwise marginal day, particularly in PPR settings. Because Montee Ball re-aggravated his groin injury Sunday and with Hillman out up to an additional five weeks, the former Cal Bear is set to ransack the competition. Juwan Thompson may give him a breather or two, but 15-20 touches should be the norm rest of season. What's most attractive about Anderson is his versatile skill set. Even in games where the Broncos offense mysteriously disappears, he will play a substantial role. Miami is notoriously unforgiving to fantasy running backs. The 'Fins have allowed only 3.76 yards per carry to RBs. Overall, just five rushers have achieved "Flame" status against them. Still, at home, I fully expect Peyton Manning to take out his frustrations gifting Anderson a handful of goal-to-go opportunities. 
Fearless Forecast: 14 carries, 63 rushing yards, 4 receptions, 36 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 18.9 fantasy points

Josh Gordon, Cle, WR (49%)
Matchup: at Atl
The anticipation for Gordon's return ranks right up there with the new Star Wars movie. Hop into the Millennium Falcon kids. Cleveland's "Chewy" is about to take your team to light speed. In the Twitter verse, #TeamHuevos members have peppered me with questions about whether or not to trust Gordon in his return. They fear his extended layoff will lead to visible rust. He isn't Miles Austin folks. Recall, this was the position's leading performer on a per-game basis last fall. In an offense desperate for downfield production, his breakaway wheels, plus size and ball-adjustment skills are the perfect remedy. Kyle Shanahan, who sounded like a chocolate covered Augustus Gloop when asked about Gordon's return late last week, can't wait to unleash his "X" receiver. Atlanta's secondary is good at one thing and one thing only, inconsistent execution. Desmond Trufant has occasionally played up to snuff, but with Robert Alford out the next 2-4 weeks, the Falcons are highly toast-able. Alford's replacement, Robert McClain, gave up 18.5 yards per catch in Week 11. On the season, WR1s are averaging a very healthy 73.7 yards per game against Atlanta. His three-month ordeal is finally over. It's time for Gordon to earn his Snausages. Activate him with the utmost confidence. (Admission: Ok, this is a layup, but I really wanted to toss in my two cents about Gordon's prospects this week.)
Fearless Forecast: 7 receptions, 101 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 21.4 fantasy points 

Coby Fleener, Ind, TE (26%)
Matchup: vs. Jax
When fantasy owners hear the words "ankle sprain," expletive infused reactions often follow. Severity varies, but it's an injury that often ails victims for significant durations, sometimes multiple weeks. That, unfortunately, is the case for Dwayne Allen. The consistency king, who's found the end zone seven times in eight games, may not be available this week and beyond, paving the way for Fleener to solidify his standing as a TE1. Grossly underrated, Andrew Luck's old Stanford teammate has frequently churned out top-12 numbers without much fanfare. His 7-144-0 line against New England Sunday night was his latest and finest top-shelf performance of the season. Unfavorably known for his persistent butter hands, many have purposely ignored Fleener, but he's improved his routes and botched just three passes on 49 targets this year. The last time he matched up against the Jags, Fleener totaled a quite functional 4-49-1. Allen netted a similar 4-43-1. Add in Ahmad Bradshaw's absence in the pass game and it's entirely conceivable he flirts with top-five numbers. Ride that horse. 
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 62 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 15.9 fantasy points 

SHOCKER SPECIAL (UNDER 10%)
Kenny Stills, NO, WR (5%)
Matchup: vs. Bal
Featured in this space a couple weeks back, Stills is once again an undervalued receiver with top-30 potential. My early season man-crush, Brandin Cooks, now the meat component in the fantasy stew, broke his thumb in Week 11. Placed on IR, he's done for the year. The explosive Oklahoma product is best known for his aerodynamic doo and long-range pass-catching skills. However, as his 12.5 aDOT (average depth of target) suggests, he really isn't a one-trick pony. Many of his catches this season have come on intermediate routes, mostly sideline outs in the 10-19 yard range. He's averaged a pedestrian 4.4 targets per game, but with Cooks out of action, an uptick in looks is likely. Yes, Drew Brees, the Friedrich Engels of quarterbacks, will continue to spread the wealth and Travaris Cadet should also see increased work underneath, but I suspect 7-9 targets are on the immediate horizon. Baltimore, burned by injuries and ineptitude, sports one of the league's most exploitable secondaries. Even with Jimmy Smith on the field for eight games, the Ravens have surrendered 3.5 pass plays of 20-plus yards per game, the 10th-most in the league. On the road, Baltimore's patchwork pass D is sure to get shredded. Debate Stills' merits as a WR3 in 12-team and deeper leagues. 
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 69 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 15.9 fantasy points
