2014-11-20


Philip Rivers, SD, QB (50 percent started)
Matchup: vs. StL
Just three weeks ago, Rivers was practically an every-week lock as a QB1, even in 10-team leagues. His sparkling 20:5 TD:INT split and resulting 21.3 fantasy points per game placed him No. 5 at the position. However, consecutive yack-worthy performances later (138-0-3 at Mia and 193-1-0) and doubts have started to creep in. Attacked on 36.5 percent of his drop-backs during that two-game stretch, he's crumbled under the pressure. San Diego's patchwork offensive line combined with a stagnant run game have spoiled his production. Though the Rams, who surrendered multi-TD efforts to QBs in five of their first six games, have been hampered at times vertically, they've showed substantial improvement of late. Highlighted by a masterful containment of Peyton Manning last week, relatively speaking, St. Louis has yielded only three passing touchdowns and the 10th-fewest fantasy points to passers since Week 8. Its remarkable badgering of signal-callers (15 sacks in their last four) has grounded the opposition. Rivers, already dealing with a tender knee and possibly ribs, is sure to get swarmed under early and often behind the league's second-worst pass-blocking line. If you own him, consider alternatives (e.g. Josh McCown, Ryan Tannehill and Mark Sanchez). 
Fearless Forecast: 21-35, 251 passing yards, 1 passing touchdown, 1 interception, 15.6 fantasy points




.

.
Alfred Morris, Was, RB (84 percent started)
Matchup: at SF
Based on their last two pathetic exhibitions, the 'Skins offense has resembled Morris' 1991 Mazda 626, pre-reconditioned. Clunky, pedestrian and stuck in park, Washington looks absolutely lost leading up to and since RG3's return. Much of its ineffectiveness can be pinned on a makeshift offensive line. Down several key "hogs," the unit put Griffin under duress 50 percent of the time against Minnesota and Tampa. Despite the team's ineptitude, Morris has kept on trucking. In his past two contests, he's averaged 4.8 yards per carry, scored twice and netted 120.5 total yards per game. His tough running between the pipes and increased role in the pass game are certainly encouraging. Still, he's a mediocre at-best option by the Bay. The Niners haven't skipped a beat defensively sans Patrick Willis. Aldon Smith's activation combined with Chris Borland's exceptional play have shut offenses down, particularly at the point of attack. Last week, Giants rushers averaged a hideous 3.09 yards per carry against them. More impressive, only three RBs (DeMarco Murray, Ronnie Hillman and Mark Ingram), have scored 10-plus fantasy points vs. the Gold Panners on the year. In a contest sure to rankle every Washington fan, the Butler gets served.  
Fearless Forecast: 18 carries, 69 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 12 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 9.6 fantasy points



.
Marshawn Lynch, Sea, RB (98 percent started)
Matchup: vs. Ari
Most would argue mentioning the position leader in touchdowns, a true consistency king, in this space is like putting Kevin Spacey atop a list of worst actors – utterly comical. However, disregard the name for a minute, open your mind and listen to the argument below. It's quite compelling. Stretching back to Week 1 last year, running backs are averaging a ghastly 3.29 yards per carry and 63.8 rushing yards per contest against the Arizona Cardinals. Most discouraging, only one RB, Frank Gore Week 6 2013, has notched a triple-digit effort on the ground against them, a span of 27 games. Despite a myriad of injuries to supposedly irreplaceable players (e.g. Darnell Dockett), the Desert Birds continue to drop little "presents" on fantasy owner windshields. No doubt, Lynch is the most brutalizing rusher in the league. This fall, he's forced 50 missed tackles on 177 attempts and notched a 57.9 yards after contact percentage. A cannon blast at close range probably wouldn't take him down. Still, he's struggled against the division rival in recent years. In his last eight meetings against 'Zona, he failed to total 11 or more PPR points (.75/rec) six times. Arizona, quite possibly the most dissed 9-1 team in NFL history, is hungry to prove it can topple anyone, anywhere. Marshawn should again tote the rock 20-plus times, but look for Calais Campbell and Co. to hold Mr. Skittles under 100 yards. It's entirely likely, given how well Antonio Cromartie and Patrick Peterson have executed in single coverage, Todd Bowles loads the box and dares Russell Wilson to beat his club vertically. Hey, they don't call me the CEO of #TeamHuevos for nothing.
Fearless Forecast: 22 carries, 84 rushing yards, 2 receptions, 8 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 10.7 fantasy points




.
Brandon LaFell, NE, WR (50 percent started)
Matchup: vs. Det
In a season loaded with surprises at wide receiver, LaFell is one of the biggest. Practically dead-weight while a Carolina Panther, he's blossomed into a highly reliable contributor. Benefiting from Tom Brady's superheated streak and with attention drawn to Gronk, LaFell's averaged a robust 16.9 fantasy points per game in the "Flames/Lames" format since Week 4, the 13th-best output at the position. Still, much of that production came against soft competition (Buf, NYJ, Chi), a luxury he won't have in Week 12. Everyone talks about Detroit's impregnable defensive line, but the secondary has been equally unyielding. Corners Rashean Mathis and Darius Slay have allowed a combined 56.3 catch percentage and 79.6 QB rating to their assignments. In fact, only six wideouts have scored at least 10 fantasy points against the Lions this season. With those stats in mind, it's no wonder why they've surrendered the third-fewest fantasy points to the position. Brady is off his rocker right now, but I suspect LaFell tallies only marginal numbers Sunday. 
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 67 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 9.7 fantasy points 



.
Larry Fitzgerald, Ari, WR (51 percent started)
Matchup: at Sea
From the start of training camp through the end of the calendar year, the physical punishment players endure is quite taxing. Many carry on despite the often unbearable pain. Others submit to the violent game's repercussion. Fitzgerald, one of the NFL's toughest wideouts, belongs to the former group, but for his unsure owners, they wish he was part of the latter. Planning to play through a Grade 2 MCL sprain in his right knee, the former All-Pro is completely untrustworthy in Week 12. His cutting limitations, unfavorable matchup and absent chemistry with Drew Stanton (36.5 yards per game, 0 TDs in four games) are all deterrents. In a contest that's sure to be a low-scoring affair, Fitz acts as decoy. Kenny Britt (at SD), Cecil Shorts (at Ind) and Chris Hogan (vs. NYJ) are better dice rolls. 
Fearless Forecast: 2 receptions, 24 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 3.9 fantasy points 


