2014-10-29

Eli Manning, NYG, QB (12%)
Matchup: vs. Ind
The last time Younger Manning was advertised in this space, those who bought in probably chucked chicken wings at their television screens in disgust. I hexed the poor dude. Gifted a marvelous matchup against Philly and sporting a hot hand he underperformed, miserably stumbling his way to 151 yards without a touchdown. That, Team Huevos, is why the NFL stands for No Friggin' Logic. Strangely confident he'll right the previous wrong, I'm going back to the Eli well. Fresh off the bye, he should toe the QB1 line. Prior to Ben Roethlisberger's record-setting afternoon, Indy was one of the most feared defenses in Fantasyland. Up until they allowed 522 yards and six touchdowns to Big Ben, the Colts had given up a mere 191.8 passing yards and two touchdowns to QBs in their previous four contests. Vontae Davis' early exit, though, changed the complexity of Greg Manusky's scheme, leaving its participants dazed and thoroughly confused. Davis' MRI came back negative, but he still could miss time. If the corner is unavailable Sunday, a rejuvenated Eli airs it out. 
Fearless Forecast: 22-35, 273 passing yards, 2 passing touchdowns, 0 interceptions, 21.6 fantasy points 

Denard Robinson, Jax, RB/WR (39%)
Matchup: at Cin
If Shoelace continues to pound the pigskin, he might just earn himself a lucrative sneaker deal. Bulkier, but still lightning quick, the former Michigan QB is developing into a reliable RB2. Earning the start last week over snails Toby Gerhart and Storm Johnson, Robinson bolted his way to 118 combined yards on 19 touches vs. Miami, his second-consecutive 100-yard effort. Fleet-footed, decisive and elusive, he certainly has the look of a near every-down asset moving forward. Under the microscope, advanced metrics convey a slightly different message. His 4.84 yards per carry is stellar, but only 42.8 percent of yards gained have come after contact and he's forced just four missed tackles on 80 touches. Still, the volume remains very attractive. So does his Week 9 matchup. Since Week 3, only the bumbling Bucs have surrendered more fantasy points to rushers than Cincinnati. During that span, the Bengals have allowed a staggering 4.66 yards per carry, 170.4 total yards and seven touchdowns to the position. Geno Atkins still checks out as one of the league's best run defenders, but injuries and inconsistencies at linebacker explain the Bengals' vulnerability to RBs. Game flow is critical for Robinson, but if the rapidly improving Jags D can continue its upward climb, another triple-digit output is likely. 
Fearless Forecast: 19 carries, 94 rushing yards, 1 reception, 7 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 16.8 fantasy points 

Jonas Gray, NE, RB (2%)
Matchup: vs. Den
It never ceases to amaze where fantasy value crops up from. Less than three weeks ago, Gray was a nobody on the practice squad, a buried rusher worth about as much as a JaMarcus Russell autograph. However, one devastating Stevan Ridley knee injury later and the former Golden Domer is Bill Belichick's latest "big back," a role that suits his skill set perfectly. Gray isn't a flashy runner by any means, but his stout 5-foot-10, 225-pound frame and one-cut ability work beautifully in Josh McDaniels' offense. He sees the hole and attacks it aggressively by getting downhill. Owners didn't exactly retire off his 17-86-0 (5.06 ypc) performance last week vs. Chicago, but, for those who play in challenging leagues where Tom Brady wasn't considered a preseason "sleeper," it was useful nonetheless. Undoubtedly, Denver is an extremely difficult opponent. The Broncos are tenacious, quick to the ball and generally unyielding. RBs have totaled a mere 2.65 yards per carry and 46.5 rushing yards per game against them. Many would rather hang with Painfully Awkward Rob Lowe than trust a little known RB against a stingy Denver run D, but this promises to be a high-scoring contest. With Brady out of his mind right now, I'm banking on a goal-to-go opportunity or three for Gray. Debate his services in the FLEX in 12-team leagues.  
Fearless Forecast: 16 carries, 70 rushing yards, 0 receptions, 1 touchdown, 13.0 fantasy points 

Donte Moncrief, Ind, WR (2%)
Matchup: at NYG
Drawing his first start of what could be a spectacular NFL career, Donte resembled another Moncrief, former NBA great Sidney. Save for a couple of drops, the rookie was flat out smooth. Against the Steelers he grabbed seven passes (on 12 targets) for 113 yards and a touchdown, routinely using his sinewy 6-foot-2, 225-pound frame and physical off-the-line nature to gain separation. According to Indy Star contributor Stephen Holder, the Colts are optimistic Reggie Wayne will return to action this week after sitting Week 8 with an elbow injury. Even if he returns, Moncrief should play a substantial role. The youngster is simply too good to be utilized in a limited capacity. Another 35-plus snaps are completely realistic. Spearheaded by Dominique Rodgers-Cromartie and Prince Amukamura, the Giants secondary has performed admirably this year. Combined they've conceded a 53.8 catch rate and 65.7 QB rating. Overall, only five wide receivers have reached the 60-yard mark against New York. Though the paper matchup is unappealing, Moncrief's imposing stature and veteran-like approach should win the day. In a brutal bye week, he's a highly employable WR3. 
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 69 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 16.6 fantasy points 

Travis Kelce, KC, TE (41%)
Matchup: vs. NYJ
Kelce is a swinging pendulum personified. Thanks to Andy Reid's insistence on limiting him to 50-60 percent of team snaps, the tight end has been wildly inconsistent. On fire from Weeks 3-5, he racked the fifth-best line at the position, catching 13 passes for 144 yards and three touchdowns. Since then, however, he's grabbed just eight balls for 78 yards and no scores. But this week presents a unique opportunity. The one-win Jets are lousy in all facets of the game, particularly containing plus-sized targets. Linebackers DeMario Davis and David Harris have allowed 40 receptions on 51 targets (78.4 catch percentage). And no defense has surrendered more TDs (9) to the position over the past six weeks. Alex Smith is sure to play it conservative, but of his roughly 25-30 pass attempts, 7-8 will be thrown No. 87's way. This is the week Special K once again cracks the TE top-10. 
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 57 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 14.7 fantasy points 

Bobby Rainey, TB, RB (9%), SHOCKER SPECIAL
Matchup: at Cle
If Doug Martin were a Halloween candy, he would definitely be a butterscotch-flavored Dum-Dums pop. The man doesn't exactly stimulate the taste buds. Rumored to be on the trade block and now dealing with an ankle injury, the "Muscle Hamster" may soon be snake food. Advantage Rainey. Over the past week, much has been said about Charles Sims' imminent return and possible rest-of-season impact. An ESPN report suggested Sims could earn "serious carries" down the homestretch, but the fact of the matter is the rookie back hasn't logged a single snap this season. It's entirely plausible he's eased into a 12-14 touch workload over the next couple weeks, making Rainey the presumed starter. It's difficult for fanatics to erase his two-fumble catastrophe in Atlanta a few weeks back. That's understandable. Still, when given opportunities, Rainey has been the Bucs' most effective back. He's averaged 4.6 yards per carry and tallied the second-highest elusive rating of any NFL rusher. His outstanding versatility, shiftiness and surprising brawn cannot be overstated. Blessed with a fabulous matchup against a Browns defense that's allowed 4.69 yards per carry and the seventh-most fantasy points to RBs, the veteran, and not Sims, is the Tampa back to trust. 
Fearless Forecast: 17 carries, 82 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 20 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 18.4 fantasy points 

