2014-10-30

Philip Rivers, SD, QB (64%)
Matchup: at Mia
Evident in his steady production the past two seasons, gum-flapping isn't the only area The Bolo Tie excels in. Terribly undervalued on draft day, Rivers has again raged this year. His 21.3 fantasy points per game mark in standard Yahoo leagues ranks No. 5 at the position. He's also on pace for a career-best 40 touchdown passes. From a secondary perspective, the veteran has been every bit as good as his superficial numbers suggest. He ranks top-10 in accuracy percentage and deep-ball passing. Cool under pressure, he's spread the ball around masterfully, rekindling the magic with Antonio Gates while jump-starting Branden Oliver's career. No doubt he's been marvelous, but this week's cross-country trip to Miami poses a problem. The Dolphins secondary is terribly underrated. Brent Grimes and Cortland Finnegan, who both rank inside the top-30 in pass coverage according to Pro Football Focus, have given up a combined 10.5 yards per catch. Collectively, the 'Fins D has conceded 6.08 yards per attempt and only a pair of multi-TD passers. This week, Rivers suffers on South Beach. 
Fearless Forecast: 20-31, 247 passing yards, 1 passing touchdown, 1 interception, 7 rushing yards, 16.1 fantasy points

Jerick McKinnon, Min, RB (60%)
Matchup: vs. Was
In an otherwise tumultuous year for Minnesota, the organization has found a real diamond-in-the-rough in McKinnon. The former Georgia Southern quarterback is a star in the making. His unreal athleticism, slashing style, developing versatility, power and explosiveness are Pro Bowl-caliber attributes. On 76 totes, he's blasted his way to 5.16 yards per carry, gaining 56.6 percent of his yards after contact. Matt Asiata, a superior pass-blocker, will continue to wrest away roughly 20-25 snaps per game, but, make no mistake, McKinnon is the club's running back of the future. His long-term upside is blindingly bright, but after disappointing somewhat last week against a soft Tampa D (82 total yards, zero touchdowns), he isn't the strongest play vs. a much stiffer Washington unit. DeMarco Murray went nuts against the 'Skins Monday night, but he was only the second 70-plus yard rusher they had allowed this season. Including the dynamite showing, rushers have managed just 3.93 yards per carry against Jim Haslett's bunch. The 'Skins, riding high after last week's stunning win in Dallas, will feel all warm and fuzzy inside in chilly Minnesota. 
Fearless Forecast: 17 carries, 69 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 12 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 10.3 fantasy points 

Justin Forsett, Bal, RB (61%)
Matchup: at Pit
The first highly sought after waiver wire acquisition this year has left his investors in the black. In eight games, he's logged the 14th-best line among fantasy running backs, outpacing the likes of early-round selections Eddie Lacy, LeSean McCoy and Alfred Morris. At 5-foot-8, 187-pounds, Forsett is like Scrappy Doo, diminutive yet fearless. He's averaged a ghastly 2.3 yards per carry on runs up the gut, but his 6.5 ypc on off-tackle bursts proves his explosiveness on the edge. An equally dynamic receiver, he's truly been a blessing in disguise in light of the Ray Rice fallout. Still, because of his ineffectiveness in short-yardage, his overall fantasy impact is somewhat stunted. Lorenzo Taliaferro, who punched in a pair of scores inside the 10 last week, should continue to play the role of goal-line gremlin. The last time Forsett faced the Steelers, back in Week 2, he tallied a useful 72 combined yards. Since then, however, Pittsburgh has tightened up its run D. Mike Tomlin's group has yielded a modest 4.03 yards per carry to RBs in their past six games. During that span only Arian Foster and Ahmad Bradshaw exceeded 80 total yards against them. In what will likely be another scratch-and-claw affair in this storied rivalry, Forsett, who isn't close to 100 percent due to an ankle injury, compiles just average numbers. 
Fearless Forecast: 13 carries, 61 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 14 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 9.7 fantasy points 

Julian Edelman, NE, WR (75%)
Matchup: vs. Den
Trapped on planet Suckitune over the past several weeks, Edelman has contributed little to the virtual game. His 33-291-0 output over New England's past six contests ranks No. 69 among fantasy wideouts, behind such world beaters as Kenny Britt, Taylor Gabriel and Jarvis Landry. The lack of production is especially jarring considering the torrid tour Tom Brady has been on. With the exception of Week 8, Edelman has consistently attracted 8-10 targets per game. However, because of his short-gain nature, Rob Gronkowski's presence and Brandon LaFell's expanded workload, he's essentially become a bit player in a burgeoning offense. His six dropped passes, the second-most in the league, also haven't helped. Though points should be plentiful with Denver coming to town, Edelman is untrustworthy. Broncos Chris Harris and Aqib Talib have bucked assignments regularly this year. Only three wide receivers have exceeded 60 yards against them. Collectively, Denver has given up the eighth-fewest fantasy points to the position. In a brutal bye week, he's still employable as a WR3 in PPR settings, but debating alternatives in standard leagues is recommended. 
Fearless Forecast: 6 receptions, 48 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 9.3 fantasy points 

Michael Floyd, Ari, WR (69%)
Matchup: at Dal
A fantasy vampire in Week 8, Floyd drained the life out of his owners in what was an incredibly favorable matchup vs. Philly. He was targeted deep four times in that contest, but botched a pair of opportunities on catchable balls. His resulting triple-bagel (0-0-0) left owners greatly perturbed. Overall, Floyd has been a monumental disappointment. Tabbed as a strong breakout candidate by several pundits, he's been a king of inconsistency. On pace for a mere 43 catches, 805 yards and four touchdowns, he's really nothing more than a WR5 in 12-team leagues. Dallas made Colt McCoy look like Mark Rypien circa '91 last Monday as the ex-Longhorn connected with DeSean Jackson on numerous explosive pass plays. Still, the strength of the Cowboys defense is its secondary. Orlando Scandrick and friends have surrendered the fourth-fewest pass plays of 20-plus yards. Because Floyd typically earns his paycheck hauling in long throws, he could again confound his supporters. Without a 50-yard game to his name since Week 3, the Cardinal "pulls a Canseco" in Big D. 
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 49 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 7.9 fantasy points 
