2014-09-03

Russell Wilson, Sea, QB (35-percent started)
Matchup: vs. GB 
It's been summer of highs for Wilson. Nearly flawless, he was Energy Star certified in preseason play. Super efficient, judicious and accurate, he completed 33 of 42 passes for 437 yards and three touchdowns (zero INTs). He's yet to surpass the 30-score threshold in two years, but he should flirt with the achievement this season. Yes, the 'Hawks, supported by their suffocating defense, will again emphasize ball control, however, with a full season of Percy Harvin (we hope) and an emerging big-play weapon in Jermaine Kearse, it's possible the passer posts career benchmarks across the board. His quest begins Thursday night against Green Bay. The Packers' D, hampered by injuries (Clay Matthews) and poor play last season, hopes to tighten the screws. Unfortunately, offseason acquisition Julius Peppers is not the game-changing player he was earlier in his career and sans interior lineman B.J. Raji, question marks are aplenty. Throw in the below average execution of corners Sam Shields and Tramon Williams throughout August, and odds are strong Wilson showcases a fiery hand in the opener. Count on him for QB1 numbers in 12-team leagues. 

Fearless Forecast: 20-25, 248 passing yards 2 passing TDs, 0 INTs, 37 rushing yards, 24.1 fantasy points


Shane Vereen, NE, RB (52-percent started)
Matchup: at Mia 
Most would agree, similar to New Orleans or even Tennessee, the backfield division in Foxboro is wildly unpredictable and nearly impossible to forecast. Ah the joys of Bill Belichick. However, the situation might be clearer than you think. Notorious fumbler Stevan Ridley played sparingly throughout the preseason and rookie James White, who rotated in occasionally with the ones, accomplished little with his opportunities. Enter Vereen. If his role and resulting output two weeks ago versus Carolina was an indication of what's to come (11 touches, 75 total yards, 2 TDs), he will be a cherished RB2 this season. He will occasionally surrender interior carries to Ridley, White and possibly Brandon Bolden, but it appears likely he will play at least 60 percent of the team's snaps, if not more. As Pats beat writer Mike Reiss recently reported, Vereen will have a "significant role in almost any plan." Bank on that being the case in Miami. With Rob Gronkowski expected to play in a limited capacity, the Swiss Army Knife should terrorize a banged up Dolphins linebacker corps, a group that conceded nearly five receptions per game to rushers last year. No matter the format, trust Vereen to record top-10 numbers on roughly 15-18 touches. 

Fearless Forecast: 9 carries, 36 rushing yards, 7 receptions, 52 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 20.1 fantasy points


Ben Tate, Cle, RB (44-percent started)
Matchup: at Pit 
There are certain things in sports that can't be unseen. Joe Theisman's broken leg, Justin Verlander's uncovered backside and Cleveland's passing offense instantly come to mind. Though the Browns are clearly a work in progress vertically, the ground game is a bit more refined. In Kyle Shanahan's zone-blocking scheme, they should be one of the better run-it-down-your-throat teams. The first-string offensive line, anchored by Joe Thomas and Alex Mack, graded out as the fourth-best run-blocking unit in exhibition play according to Pro Football Focus. Tate, who completely outplayed rookie Terrance West this summer, is solidified as the club's primary workhorse. As reported by the Akron Beacon Journal over the holiday weekend, Mike Pettine admitted he's "comfortable" with the veteran toting a three-down workload. The anticipated RBBC is dead, at least for now. Once a feared D, the "Soft Curtain" is a shell of its former self. Gashed often in the preseason, Steelers defenders were routinely out of position, surrendering numerous explosive plays. Rashad Jennings' 73-yard end-zone sprint three weeks ago exhibited their vulnerability. Yes, a hard sneeze could sideline Tate, but healthy for now, the rusher is a top-shelf RB2 who could pack serious bite on 20-plus touches.

Fearless Forecast: 19 carries, 83 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 12 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 17.7 fantasy points

Brandin Cooks, NO, WR (22-percent started)
Matchup: at Atl 
Rookie. First game. Division rival. That setup would scare off many. However, the Mario Batali of fantasy wideouts is about to torch the Falcons like a creme brulee. Whether on short screens, simple curls or returns, Cooks put up highlight plays throughout August. His 4.33 40-yard speed, Sproles-like elusiveness and unfazed attitude fostered many a man-crush. Drew Brees was just one guy who fell head over heels. There are many mouths to feed in the Saints' socialist offense and it's unclear exactly how many snaps he'll play, but gut feeling says "Lightning" will strike in Atlanta. Entering the regular season the Falcons' D, a unit that ranked at or near the bottom in several categories a season ago giving up over 6,000 yards and 430-plus points, looks non-threatening. After losing its leader, Sean Weatherspoon, earlier this summer, it may never recover. Count on Sean Peyton to find creative ways to feed Cooks in space, maximizing his potential. This will be the first of many terrific ROY-caliber performances. 

Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 67 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 6 rushing yards, 17.1 fantasy points

DeAndre Hopkins, Hou, WR (9-percent started)
Matchup: vs. Was 
Despite being arguably the most productive receiver in Texans camp, Hopkins wasn't well-received by fanatics. His 125-plus ADP in Yahoo leagues made him a rock-bottom buy, particularly in PPR formats. Andre Johnson is expected to be the main man once again in Houston, but Ryan Fitzpatrick developed a bubbling chemistry with Hopkins during the veteran's self-imposed layoff in OTAs and minicamp. That rapport could mirror what the QB had with Kendall Wright in Tennessee last year. Their established relationship and the sophomore's experience gained after playing over 1,000 snaps last year should pay instant dividends. A breakout campaign is very much in the offing. Washington offered minimal resistance against the pass a season ago, ranking in the bottom 10 in receptions and yards allowed to wide receivers. During the preseason, DeAngelo Hall continued to slack in coverage yielding a 118.8 QB rating. Because Fitzpatrick rarely challenges defenses deep, bank on him nickel and diming Jay Gruden's bunch underneath, an area where Hopkins typically thrives. 

Fearless Forecast: 7 receptions, 73 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 18.5 fantasy points 

SHOCKER SPECIAL (UNDER 10-PERCENT STARTED)
Travis Kelce, KC, TE (5-percent started)
Matchup: vs. TEN
Frankie Hammond, Donnie Avery, Junior Hemmingway, A.J. Jenkins – down Dwayne Bowe (suspension), these are Andy Reid's top options at WR Week 1. Exciting. Unless the early 2000s version of Derrick Alexander or Eddie Kennison walks through the door tomorrow, it seems highly likely Kelce, the club's most athletic and explosive receiving weapon, will be an integral part of the gameplan vs. Tennessee. He played only sparingly with the first team during exhibition action (15 snaps), conceding time to Anthony Fasano, but totaling 11 catches, 193 yards, two scores and nine missed tackles. He's indisputably the Chiefs' finest downfield playmaker. The Titans were routinely burned by oversized targets in zone coverage last season, surrendering 4.8 receptions and 57.7 yards per game to tight ends. Though the defense has transitioned from 4-3 to 3-4 under Ray Horton, it's still an exploitable unit. To take advantage of Kelce's size and speed (4.61 40-yard), look for Reid to shift him around the field with most of his work coming outside or in the slot. Mark my words, he will be arguably THE hottest waiver add come Tuesday morning. 

Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 69 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 16.6 fantasy points
