2013-09-12

Russell Wilson, Sea, QB (67%)
Matchup: vs. SF
We all would love to be Wilson. Magazine model looks. Supreme intelligence. Multi-sport versatility. Wealth. Incredibly attractive significant other. If there was a 'Single White Female' remade for dudes, I would proudly play the part of Jennifer Jason Leigh. However, this week, my mantastic feelings toward Wilson are repressed. Though he performed quite well against a better-than-advertised Panthers defense in Week 1 (322-1-0-7), San Francisco presents a much stiffer challenge. No doubt, the Niners' secondary is the team's biggest weakness. Tarell Brown, Carlos Rogers and Nnamdi Asomugha were burned repeatedly by Aaron Rodgers, each ranking well-outside the top-40 in coverage according to Pro Football Focus. That's an occurrence that will typically happen to most DBs against Rodgers, but with Chris Culliver no longer in the fold, it raises SF fans' level of concern. Still, there's plenty of talent in the locker-room to be an above average unit, particularly against Seattle's unexciting WR corps. Combine that with a likely strong dose of Marshawn Lynch (Recall last year he eclipsed 100 yards twice against SF), and it could be a rather conservative afternoon for Wilson. Remember last year in two meetings against the division rival, he totaled a mere 6.6 yards per attempt and 166 combined yards per game. Carson Palmer, Terrelle Pryor and Eli Manning offer higher upside.
Fearless Forecast: 17-28, 193 passing yards, 2 passing touchdowns, 1 interception, 16 rushing yards, 18.2 fantasy points

David Wilson, NYG, RB (61%)
Matchup: vs. Den
Tied to Tom Coughlin's doghouse, Wilson has consumed multiple bowls of Kibbles 'n Bits in recent days. Likely due to an innate fear of Cowboys (What else explains it?), the over-hyped rusher nearly got Eli Manning decapitated and fumbled twice last Sunday, egregious errors that led to his benching. With Andre Brown on the mend, Coughlin has limited options outside Wilson. Da'Rel Scott flashed decent potential in relief of the incumbent, particularly as a receiver, but pales in comparison talent-wise. And recently re-signed Football Frankenstein, Brandon Jacobs, offers nothing more than pass protection/goal-line security. When asked Tuesday whether Wilson would draw the start in the Manning Bowl, the always curmudgeon Coughlin responded "We'll see." It's anyone's best guess who will trot onto the field with the first team, but after Scott suffered a minor knee injury in practice Wednesday, Wilson will likely be gifted a second chance. He should rack at least 15 total touches, but against a Denver defense that limited Baltimore rushers to just 2.8 yards per carry, he's the ultimate risk/reward play. If you have an iron stomach, entertain the idea of plugging in Rashard Mendenhall (vs. Det), Lamar Miller (at Ind) or DeAngelo Williams (at Buf) instead.
Fearless Forecast: 15 carries, 66 rushing yards, 1 reception, 4 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 7.7 fantasy points

Stevan Ridley, NE, RB (86%)
Matchup: vs. NYJ
Bill Belichick doesn't just serve up slices of humble pie, he stuffs it down failure's throats. Just ask Ridley. Last week in Buffalo, The Riddler lived up to his name. Benched after fumbling in the first half, he left his owners, who likely spent a pretty penny on his services just weeks ago, completely vexed. Shane Vereen's unfortunate downfall paves the way for Ridley to reascend, but given Beelzichick's track-record of deceit, that's far from a guarantee. However, the usually guarded head coach openly admitted Wednesday "we are going to need him." As stated before, The Hoodie has options at running back. LeGarrette Blount, Leon Washington and sleeper Brandon Bolden could form a RBBC of unknown distribution in short order. Tom Brady threw his support behind Ridley post-practice Tuesday, but it's not his call. It's entirely possible the rusher will be limited under 15 carries and supplanted at the goal-line by Bolden. The matchup also isn't entirely favorable. The Jets were pounded between-the-tackles last year, but stuffed the run effectively against Doug Martin and the Bucs last week, yielding just 2.6 yards per carry. Play it safe gamer. Find a suitable alternative.
Fearless Forecast: 14 carries, 53 rushing yards, 0 receptions, 0 touchdowns, 5.3 fantasy points

Marques Colston, NO, WR (89%)
Matchup: at TB
Coming off a top-20 performance in Week 1 (6-5-68-1), the Saints' Old Reliable is well on his way to his fourth-straight season with at least 80 receptions, 1,000 yards and seven touchdowns. However, the Buccaneers present no small task in Week 2. Darrelle Revis resembled his old self in his first game with Tampa. Against his former employer, the Jets, he played 55 snaps, was targeted four times and allowed just one reception. Sean Payton typically shifts his receivers around to maximize matchups, but it's entirely possible Revis will blanket Colston almost exclusively. That happens, and it's likely the cherished WR2 underwhelms, an outcome not unfamiliar to his owners. Recall last year, Colston scored eight fantasy points or less in standard settings eight times, one of those lackluster efforts against a then more accommodating Tampa secondary. Inconsistency is his norm. Play the odds.
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 36 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 6.6 fantasy points

Dez Bryant, Dal, WR (93%)
Matchup: at KC
Running back failures may have topped many league headlines Week 1, but Dez's disappearance in a favorable matchup against New York was equally soul-crushing. On eight targets, he hauled in just four receptions for 22 yards, ranking No. 78 among Week 1 WRs, one spot ahead of world-beater Marvin Jones. Most worrisome, the popular second-round pick rolled his foot under a Giants defender in the second half, an injury that generated a collective gasp from onlookers. Thankfully it was only a mild foot sprain. Though he's practiced this week and is expected to start, he's nowhere near 100% and is far from a WR1 slam dunk. Kansas City's secondary, which benefited from the grossly inept play of Blaine Gabbert, looked terrific last week. Underrated corner Brandon Flowers, one of the league's finer cover-men a season ago, conceded only 9.8 yards per catch and a 45.5 reception rate on 11 targets. Also taking into consideration Tony Romo's limited condition (ribs), Bryant could flounder for the second-consecutive week.
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 47 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 7.7 fantasy points
