2009-10-08

Brett Favre, Min, QB ()
Matchup: at StL
In Monday Night's ratings bonanza, the almost 40-year-old Favre defied Father Time, turning back the clock to his vintage, rifling days. Against one of the NFC's stiffest secondaries, Green Bay, he tossed 271 yards for three touchdowns. More importantly, he completed a ridiculous 77.4 percent of his attempts, a dramatic improvement from the week before (52.2 percent). The rancid Rams have ramped up their play against the run, but at a vertical cost. Though they've limited rushers to just 3.9 yards per carry, passers have averaged a healthy 235.5 yards per game and totaled seven touchdowns against them equal to the seventh-most fantasy points surrendered. Additional game-manager performances are on the horizon, but with his arm "feeling great" and given the Rams' inability to get to the quarterback effectively, the graybeard will once again showcase a youthful exuberance.
Fearless Forecast: 22-30, 246 passing yards, 2 touchdowns, 0 interceptions, 20 fantasy points

Jerome Harrison, Cle, RB ()
Matchup: at Buf
Overshadowed by Braylon Edwards' Tom Cable impersonation and subsequent exodus to New York, Harrison has quietly performed fantastically over the past two weeks, especially in PPR formats. Defying critics' undersized contentions, the versatile rusher has totaled 118.5 total yards per game as a starter, including his first 100-yard effort of his career against a rigid Bengals defense. Sideline-to-sideline, as Eric Mangini observed last week, the Browns' offensive line/receivers have blocked well, creating space for Harrison to shuttle through. Shifty and quick, the light-footed rusher is another strong play against banged up Buffalo, a team his only career TD came against. The Bills have yielded 4.9 yards per carry, 180.3 total yards per game and eight total scores to RBs this season equal to the third-most fantasy points allowed. Derek Anderson's ability to effectively stretch the field combined with the improved play of the barkers up front means Harrison is def-in-itely in the HOWSE. Raise a forty to the sky fool!
Fearless Forecast: 23 carries, 94 rushing yards, 5 receptions, 29 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 18 fantasy points

Knowshon Moreno, Den, RB ()
Matchup: vs. NE
With Correll Buckhalter hobbled the former Georgia Bulldog should pack a vicious bite in his first career NFL start. The McDevil has clung to an "unplanned formula" at RB, routinely rotating rushers. But based on the rookie's increased workload over the past two weeks, he is clearly the primary carrier. Since Week 3, Moreno has touched the pill 18.7 times per contest, averaging 4.4 yards per carry and 87.7 total yards per game. The Patriots defense, which has underperformed due to a bevy of injuries, especially in the linebacker corps, has been vulnerable on the ground. Rushers have averaged an impressive 4.5 yards per carry and 138.3 total yards per game against Beelzechick's bunch. In the Clash of the Satans, look for Knowshon to provide all the answers.
Fearless Forecast: 19 carries, 81 rushing yards, 3 receptions, 18  receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 15 fantasy points

LeSean McCoy, Phi, RB ()
Matchup: vs. TB
Mancrushin' on McCoy has been a common exercise for the Noise. The rookie, who has exhibited outstanding versatility, burst, cut-back ability and vision, is quickly wresting away touches from brittle Brian Westbrook. Although the veteran is back close to full strength and is expected to start, the Eagles, as Andy Reid emphatically said before the bye week, plan to institute a timeshare, possibly giving McCoy at least 40 percent of the touches. The youngster, a junior clone of Westbrook, should inflict substantial damage on a Tampa defense with roughly 12-15 touches. Skewered by the run this season, the Bucs have surrendered 4.8 yards per carry, 164.8 total yards per game and two scores to backs. For PT Cruiser, LT and Forte owners dealing with the bye week blues, McCoy will likely be the ultimate pick-me-up.
Fearless Forecast: 13 carries, 66 rushing yards, 4 receptions, 17 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 14 fantasy points

Derrick Mason, Bal, WR ()
Matchup: vs. Cin
Mason may have played rockball with triceratopses in the Jurassic, but he still remains one of fantasy's most dependable consistency kings. The seemingly ancient veteran, an incredibly savvy route runner and playmaker who coach John Harbaugh calls "the best he's seen" during his time in the league, ranks in the top 30 all-time in receptions and yards. This week, he will undoubtedly add to his fringe Hall of Fame totals. Leon Hall, who many pundits have showered in admiration, was abused last week by, of all people, Mohamed Massaquoi. Outside of last week's awful effort, Hall has performed commendably this season, unlike his fellow DBs. The Bengals have allowed the most 20-yard pass plays and the 10th-most fantasy points to wideouts this season. Due to their obvious shortcomings in downfield coverage, Joe Flacco will surely take advantage, targeting Mason often. Averaging a very healthy 8.3 looks per game, the 35-year-old receiver is destined to finish in the WR top 20 for the second straight week.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 74 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 13 fantasy points

Patrick Crayton, Dal, WR ()
Matchup: at KC
For much of the season, the Cowboys aerial attack has reeked of manure. Plagued by drops (Roy Williams needs a hands transplant) and general inconsistency, standout efforts have been few and far between. Since setting career highs in yards Week 1 (135 at TB), Crayton has sloughed off failing to eclipse the 50-yard mark in three consecutive contests. But with Williams a game-time decision (ribs), the former seventh-round pick is poised to see a rise in targets. The Chiefs are a battered and bruised unit defensively. Over the first four weeks, they've allowed the sixth-most fantasy points to wideouts. Though Crayton has clamored for the coaching staff to lean more on the "five freaks of nature" upfront, increasing reps for Marion Barber and Tashard Choice, the passing game will be stressed. Tony Romo desperately needs to establish cadence with his receivers. Employ his services as a WR3 in all formats.
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 56 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 11 fantasy points

Pierre Garcon, Ind, WR ()
Matchup: at Ten
Garcon, the second-best Pierre in pro football, has risen from the deepest, darkest recesses of the waiver wire, developing into a WR3 Kraken. A product of Division III powerhouse Mount Union, the second-year wideout, who Colts president Bill Polian believes is the second-coming of Andre Reed, is a fierce YAC monster with superb speed. Gaining the confidence of Peyton Manning each week, he currently ranks 22nd among wideouts in points per game averaging 51.8 yards per contest with two scores. Though inflexible up front, the Titans have been an abomination vertically. Carved up repeatedly by opposing passing attacks, they've yielded an obscene seven scores and five 90-plus yard receivers, the most in the league. Considering the Colts run game is still in development, Manning will go airborne early and often - great news for Garcon. Based on the matchup and expected gameplan, the fleet-footed receiver easily could establish new single-game benchmarks in receptions and yards.
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 82 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 14 fantasy points

John Carlson, Sea, TE ()
Matchup: vs. Jac
Overthrown last week an uncountable number of times by Seneca Wallace, who apparently would have difficulties connecting with Sasquatch on a five-yard slant, Carlson must be overjoyed by Matt Hasselbeck's possible return. Jim Mora believes the former Golden Domer "has a chance to be something really special." This week against an exploitable Jacksonville defense, he could exhibit those extraordinary talents. The Jags played laudably against Dallas Clark and Owen Daniels earlier this season, limiting the pair under 40 yards each. But Carlson, the third-most targeted TE in the league (8.0 tgt/g), will be leaned upon with TJ Houshmandzadeh and Nate Burleson drawing away coverage. In a contest which could become a shootout look for the second-year standout to post his first respectable effort in three weeks.
Fearless Forecast: 6 receptions, 58 receiving yards, 1 touchdown, 11 fantasy points 
