2009-10-08

Tom Brady(notes), NE, QB (Noise QB Rank: 11, Bench: 8-10 team leagues)
Matchup: at Den
According to Rodney Harrison(notes), the Goldenboy needs to retire the skirt. His owners believe he should also discard Giselle's lacy undergarments. Brady, who ranks No. 12 in points per game among QBs, has been largely mediocre totaling just five touchdowns (four pass, one rush) in four games. Hindered by the absence of Wes Welker(notes) and the balky back of Randy Moss(notes), the Pats passer, along with the New England offense as a whole, has struggled to find a "consistent level of play on a game-to-game and play-to-play basis." Under Mike Nolan's masterful direction, the My Little Ponies have transformed into world-class thoroughbreds defensively, especially against the pass. The Broncos have yet to concede a passing touchdown and have limited QBs to just 181 yards per game equal to the fewest fantasy points allowed. Brady is a daunting assignment, but Denver may very well rise to the occasion yet again.
Fearless Forecast: 24-46, 249 passing yards, 1 touchdown, 2 interceptions, 14 fantasy points
Michael Turner(notes), Atl, RB (Noise QB Rank: 18, Bench: 8-team leagues)
Matchup: at SF
The Burner, a popular top-five pick, hasn't exactly kicked on the turbo-boosters. In three contests he's averaged a wretched 3.5 yards per carry and 75.3 yards per game. Center Todd McClure(notes) admitted earlier this week Atlanta is "falling short in the run game," blaming "small breakdowns here and there" on the lack of sizable gains. More of the same could be in order in the Golden Gate City. Emulating their hardnosed coach, Mike Singletary, the Niners have hogtied backs this season, holding them to just 3.5 yards per carry, zero scores and 72 rushing yards per game, including punishers Adrian Peterson (85 ryds) and Steven Jackson (79). It's extremely difficult to demote such a marquee name, but Aubrayo Franklin(notes) and company are more than capable of dominating the line of scrimmage.
Fearless Forecast: 23 carries, 86 rushing yards, 0 touchdowns, 8 fantasy points
Willis McGahee(notes), Bal, RB (Noise RB Rank: 22, Bench: 8-10 team leagues)
Matchup: vs. Cin
As we discussed two weeks ago, the McGahee makeover has been remarkable. Transforming into the Optimus Prime of goal-line poachers, the reinvigorated back has crossed the chalk a league-high seven times in four games, which has propelled his per game average into the RB top-five. Based on the Ravens' stellar trench play, it may seem like the veteran will splash pay-dirt every week, but against Cincy, the streak will cease. Tank Johnson(notes), who is usually heavily-armed before, during and after games, and his cohorts have played laudably upfront. Through four weeks, they've allowed just 3.9 yards per carry, one rushing TD and 115 total yards per game to rushers equal to the ninth-fewest fantasy points surrendered. Joe Flacco should have marked success vertically, which could set up McGahee for a few red-zone carries, but we're gambling on a scoreless afternoon.
Fearless Forecast: 13 carries, 52 rushing yards, 1 reception, 11 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 6 fantasy points
Steve Slaton(notes), Hou, RB (Noise RB Rank: 23, Bench: 8-10 team leagues)
Matchup: at Ari
The Slasher finally showcased his sharpened wares last week totaling 89 yards with two touchdowns against the repugnant Raiders. However, in the desert, he's destined to sink in quicksand. At home the Cardinals have been an intimidating defensive foe for visiting rushers. Stretching back to last season, they've yielded just 3.7 yards per carry and 89.1 rushing yards per contest to backs. Despite last week's impressive showing, Gary Kubiak is still concerned with the Texans ground game, remarking his two-man scheme should be able to successfully penetrate eight-man fronts. Slaton's well-roundedness may give ‘Zona occasional fits, but another underwhelming effort might be in the cards. So far this season, Arizona has conceded a mere 2.9 yards per carry to rushers.
Fearless Forecast: 18 carries, 63 rushing yards, 3 reception, 27 receiving yards, 0 touchdowns, 9 fantasy points
Terrell Owens(notes), Buf, WR (Noise RB Rank: 22, Bench: 8-10 WR2 team leagues)
Matchup: vs. Cle
America needs a T.O. tirade. Though his matchup against the Chihuahuas appears delectable, Buffalo's general ineptitude offensively is very disconcerting. Trent Edwards(notes) pins the Bills' recent struggles on well-disguised "third-down pressure." The Browns have conceded the ninth-most fantasy points to pass catchers this season, but with Owens netting a lowly five targets per game, he's very undependable. Given Cleveland's softness between the hashmarks, Skeletor (Dick Jauron) will likely rely heavily on Fred Jackson(notes) and Marshawn Lynch(notes) to reestablish a rhythm offensively and alleviate pocket pressure. Even though the matchup seems favorable, don't be surprised if the Twitter fiend fails to deliver once again.
Fearless Forecast: 4 receptions, 44 yards, 0 touchdowns, 4 fantasy points
Santana Moss(notes), Was, WR (Noise RB Rank: 24, Bench: 8-10 WR2 team leagues)
Matchup: at Car
Practically dormant over the first two weeks of the season, Moss emerged from hibernation catching 12 passes for 252 yards and two scores against exploitable Detroit and Tampa. Though Carolina has underperformed defensively in the trenches, the Panthers have been just the opposite aerially. In three games they've yet to allow a receiver surpass 80 yards and have surrendered only one score equal to the fourth-fewest fantasy points conceded to WRs. When targeted underneath, Moss is very slippery, but when jammed (i.e. versus the Giants Week 1) he can vanish. In what will likely be a low scoring affair, the red-hot Washington wideout will be extinguished.
Fearless Forecast: 3 receptions, 36 yards, 0 touchdowns, 3 fantasy points
Mario Manningham(notes), NYG, WR (Noise RB Rank: 26, Bench: 8-12 WR2 team leagues)
Matchup: vs. Oak
Subtract Super Mario's spectacular game against Dallas and he's essentially been a pixilated plumber without a wrench averaging just 55.3 yards per game. Matched against an Oakland defense which thrives against the pass and, conversely, gets pounded on the ground, the Giants will undoubtedly lean on the Frankensteins (Brandon Jacobs(notes) and Ahmad Bradshaw(notes)) with or without Eli Manning(notes). According to Football Outsiders, No. 2 targets have performed 28.1 percent below the league average against the Silver and Black. Couple that with the expectation New York will aggressively attack Nnamdi Asomugha(notes); and Manningham's chances of snapping his mini-funk decrease significantly. Any suitable pass catching Viking (i.e. Sidney Rice(notes), Bernard Berrian(notes) or Percy Harvin(notes)) is more reliable this week.
Fearless Forecast: 3 receptions, 38 yards, 0 touchdowns, 3 fantasy points
Tony Gonzalez(notes), Atl, TE (Noise RB Rank: 7, No Bench)
Matchup: at SF
The last time Gonzo was mentioned in this space he further tarnished the Noise's smallish reputation totaling five catches for 73 yards and a score. Though a similar outcome could occur, we're bearish on the monolithic target again. The Gold Panners have handcuffed opposing TEs this season. In four games, they've have averaged a deplorable 2.8 receptions and 25.5 yards per game against them. None have scored. Simply put: Patrick Willis(notes) typically strangles his assignments. Gonzo is without question one of Matt Ryan's(notes) most trusted targets, but this week Roddy White(notes) and Michael Jenkins(notes) may be the points of emphasis vertically for the Dirty Birds.
Fearless Forecast: 5 receptions, 48 yards, 0 touchdowns, 4 fantasy points
